* EC-forum Co-financed by the European Commission DG Health neither the European Commission nor any person acting on its behalf is liable for any use made of this information
Participation of East European members is financed by Expert group: Data report system - EMCDDA ( description of the situation and the field the activity takes place)Background To increase
drug users access to services that help prevent and reduce health-related harm associated with drug use is an important objective in public health policy in the European Union (EU drug
strategy 2005-2012). Within a comprehensive, state-of-the-art system of care for drug users, low-threshold agencies play the most important role for increasing drug users access to care.
These agencies are not only points for entering into contact with populations of drug users that are hidden, that are more difficult to reach or have lost contact with the care system, but are an
essential service delivery setting where drug users benefit from basic health and social care services. Although all agencies have systems for monitoring types and level of service delivery in
place, reporting is mainly orientated towards accountability to funding bodies and not for example towards internal quality-management or towards service planning and evaluation at national
level. The measurement of extent, availability and coverage of harm reduction service delivery is complicated by the fact that data collection tools are usually not standardised, even though
very similar datasets are collected. As harm reduction funding typically comes from local budgets, data-flow does often not go beyond this level, which makes it complicated to obtain a reliable
overview at national and subsequently also European level. The development of this dataset will be comparable to the existing treatment demand indicator as far as possible. Aims/Goals The
overall aims of the project is to increase the availability of reliable and comparable data on low-threshold harm reduction service delivery at local, national and European levels, in order to
provide sound background information for policy planning. Objectives/activities Objective of the project is the development of a draft European data collection protocol for standardised annual
reporting about the activities carried out and the services delivered by the low-threshold agency which includes a part for the reporting about the structure and functioning of the agency.
Activities to be cartied out in order to achieve the objectives include: the definition of objectives of data-collection with regard to information needs at the planning levels: agency - local-
national - European; the collection and compilation of already existing questionnaires and other tools used by low-threshold agencies in EU Member States; the evaluation of the items covered
by these data collection tools; the analysis of their structure; the development of a standardised data collection template on low-threshold service delivery for European use; the development of
the technical manual and glossary to accompany the protocol; the implementation of the draft protocol in low threshold agencies in selected countries; the evaluation of the pilot test and the
feedback received; and the modification and finalisation of the European protocol. Current members of the work-group are a representatives of the EMCDDA in Lisbon, the Research Institute on
Drug Studies (RIDS) located in Budapest, Institute for Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia and the Department of Health-Catalunya. Methods At the launch of the project (September
2005), a work plan and time-table will be drawn up and tasks will be divided among group members, who will be responsible for fully implementing the tasks. The main working method will be
structured e-mail discussions and exchange of working documents, probably through a dedicated website. E-mail discussions will be moderated by the respective group member in charge and
responsible for the specific task concerned. The group will hold separate meetings in conjunction with the Correlation network meetings, and - if necessary - meet in the interim period for
specific technical tasks. At the project meetings, progress will be reviewed and work plan and timetable be reviewed. Results/outputs At the end of the project, a European standardised
annual reporting protocol for low-threshold agencies (incl. technical manual and glossary) is available, which allows the collection of reliable and comparable data on service delivery and on the
structure of the agencies and a first evaluation of the pilot implementation will be prepared. to streams Correlation is a project by Stadhouderskade 159 / 1074BC Amsterdam Netherlands /
tel. +31 20 672 1192 fax. +31 20 671 9694