Additional images may be available upon request. to request a custom image. How do middle-age NFL players stay in great shape and keep playing beyond their time? It's the anaerobic
exercise they perform during practice that does the trick. Anaerobic exercisehard, fast, sprinting types of exerciseis shown by medical researchers to make the body produce significant
amounts of the most powerful anti-aging, muscle-toning, body-fat-reducing substance known in sciencegrowth hormone.LAKE MILLS, Wis. - January 7th, 2005 It's widely reported that
several well-known entertainers take injections of growth hormone for its anti-aging, youth-rejuvenating properties. Because of its ability to improve performance, growth hormone has been
banned for athletes. The good news for athletes is that medical research shows that anaerobic workouts can make the body increase this hormone by 530%. This keeps older NFL players
strong, lean, and performing like their younger counterparts. Everyone, particularly those who are middle-aged, can benefit from this lesson. Growth hormone injections are given to children
with clinical stature growth problems to help them grow normally. These injections do not make adults grow taller, rather they help adults combat the middle-age spread, officially known as
"somatopause" by biomedical researchers. The middle-age somatopause is signified by energy decline, weight-gain (around the middle, and hips), loss of musdle, and wrinkled skin after the
age of 30. There are two cures for somatopause: 1.) growth hormone injections (which have very serious side-effect risks), and 2.) high-intensity anaerobic exercise. Anaerobic exercise should
be a part of every fitness routine, but even young adults should take caution and have a slow, progressive build-up program. To avoid injury, be sure to get a physician's approval and
implement a fitness plan that will slowly and progressively add higher intensities to your fitness training. Vision Fitness, a top fitness equipment company in North America, with the help of Phil
Campbell, M.S., M.A., and author of "Ready, Set, Go! Synergy Fitness, has added a SPRINT 8 anaerobic program to their new 200 and 600 Series fitness bikes and elliptical trainers. No other
fitness equipment company offers an anaerobic program on their products. SPRINT 8 is a quick, effective, 20-minute program designed to simulate the results obtained from high-intensity
exercise experienced by NFL players. This program offers 16 intensity levels to give everyone from beginners to elite athletes an effective workout. Christa Walter Vision Fitness (800)
335-4348 x32 (920) 648-3373 (fax)For More Information, Contact: Returning Customers