DirectStarTV Founded in 2003, DirectStarTv acquires new customers for DIRECTV, the industry leader in digital television entertainment. Through an innovative mix of online and traditional
methods, DirectStarTV markets and sells DIRECTV services to consumers throughout the United States. DirectStarTV has rapidly grown to become the largest DIRECTV dealer in the U.S., and
one of three preferred online retailers. In 2006, the company was named DIRECTV's Dealer of the Year. The DirectStarTV consumer website is . www.directstartv.com Security Choice Security
Choice acquires new home security customers for ADT, the #1 security provider in the United States. With a strong online presence in all major search engines, a team of highly-trained sales
professionals, and a nationwide installer network, Security Choice has become a leader in direct-to-consumer marketing for the home security industry. Founded in 2006, Security Choice is
designated an ADT Authorized Company. The Security Choice consumer website is . www.securitychoice.com Satellite Star Internet Satellite Star Internet was established in 2008 to acquire
customers for HughesNet, the nation's leading satellite Intemet service provider. Using a combination of innovative channels, including online search and distributed sales force marketing, the
company targets prospective customers across the U.S. for satellite Intemet service, offering them a fast and reliable alternative to dial-up. Satellite Star Internet has quickly gained
momentum, and is a rising star in the Red Ventures portfolio The Satellite Star Internet consumer website is . www.satellitestarinternet.com Home Services Corp. Home Services Corp. helps
movers set up home services in one easy step, with a single phone call. Through partnerships with national relocation service providers and real estate companies, Home Services Corp. reaches
millions of new movers each year. Home Services Corp. representatives explain available options for television, Internet, local phone, home security and newspaper delivery, and help customers
enroll in the services that are right for them. Copyright  2008 . All rights reserved. 15009 Lancaster Hwy, Charlotte, NC 28277