Jump to: , navigation search or ( - , ) was a in . He was the first European who saw and described the source of the . He was born in Olmeda de las Cebollas (now , near ) sixteen years before
the of the and the crowns (1580-1640). He studied at .Pedro P ezP ro Pais 1564 May 25 1622 Jesuit missionary Ethiopia Blue Nile Olmeda de las Fuentes Madrid union Spanish Portuguese
Coimbra Sent from to Ethiopia as a missionary in 1589, P ez was held captive in for seven years, from 1590 to 1596, where he used his time to learn . He finally arrived at in 1603, and made
his way to , which was the Jesuit base in that land. Unlike his predecessor, , Paul Henze describes him as "gentle, learned, considerate of the feelings of others". When summoned to the court
of the young , his knowledge of and , as well as his knowledge of Ethiopian customs impressed the sovereign so much that Za Dengel decided to convert from the to -- although P ez warned
him not to announce his declaration too quickly. However, when Za Dengel proclaimed changes in the observance of the , P ez retired to Fremona, and waited out the ensuing civil war that
ended with the emperor's death. Goa Yemen Arabic Massawa Fremona Andre de Oviedo [1] negus n g st Za Dengel Amharic Ge'ez Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church Catholicism Sabbath
This caution benefited P ez when assumed the throne in 1607. Sissinios invited him to his court, where the two became friends. Sissinios made a grant of land to P ez on the peninsula of on the
north side of , where he built a new center for his fellow Jesuits, starting with a stone church. Paez is believed to be the first European to have discovered the source of the Blue Nile on april
21.st 1618. (Sir Wallis Budge , A history of Ethiopia, p. 397.) Eventually P ez also converted Sissinios to Catholicism shortly before his own death in 1622. Susenyos Gorgora Lake Tana Some of
the Catholic churches he designed are still standing, most importantly at and , and were an influence on Ethiopian architecture. Bahir Dar Gorgora [] edit Writings P ez was the first European
to visit Lake Tana, one of the sources of the , and to write about tasting . His account of Ethiopia, in 1620, has been printed as Volumes II and III of Beccari's (Rome, 1905-17). His work was
published in 1945 at Porto in a new edition by Sanceau, Feio and Teixeira, . Blue Nile coffee Hist ria da Ethi piaRerum Aethiopicarum Scriptores occidentales InedtiiP ro Pais: Hist ria da Eti pia

In addition to translating the into , Paez is believed to be the author of the treatise . P e2's writings are one of the few works in Portuguese about Ethiopia that have not been translated into
English. Roman Catechism Ge'ez De Abyssinorum erroribus