Quick Search Club Info Site Club Forum My Cart About Canadian Supplement Club Canadian Supplement Club was started out of a strong desire to help Canadians achieve new and improved
levels of health and fitness through information on diet, exercise, and supplementation. We are a Canadian owned and operated company that strives to exceed customer expectations every
time. Below are just a few reasons why Canadians have made Canadian Supplement Club the #1 online retailer of supplements in Canada. We Truly Care About Our Clients. It's true! without
you, our business simply ceases to exist. We rely on repeat customers, and that is why you will always find our service a few levels above the competition. We give you our huge selection of
top selling products, great advice, supplement reviews, secure online ordering, and the peace of mind knowing your privacy is 100% secure. You know you can purchase product from us with
complete confidence. The Best Selection of Bodybuilding Products. We offer ONLY the worlds most effective and well know brand name supplements. No generics, no sub-standard product,
and no bull! The Fastest & Cheapest Priority Shipping! We offer simple flat rate shipping. All orders over $99 (excluding tax) ship for free. To see more details about our shipping policies
please click. HERE We Always Have The Lowest Prices! Canadian Supplement Club buys in huge volume and passes the savings on to you! The Newest & Hottest Products. You will
always see the newest products on Canadian Supplement Club first!_ When you we will send you information on the Hot New Products so you will be ahead of the curve and never be out of the
loop. Join our FREE VIP Club Free Product Samples! We enjoy giving away free supplement samples, shakers, and fitness gear! Just a little bonus to say "thanks" from our team to you.

We Have The Most Information To Help You Choose The Right Products For Your Goals. 99.99% of the products we stock have a detailed product description AND current supplement facts
chart clearly posted on our web site. This information tells you about the product, possible side effects, and a complete ingredient list. We also offer a FREE CLUB FORUM where users can post
their opinions about any products as well as any questions they may have about any diets, exercises or supplements. Don't be left in the dark! Buy with confidence from Canadian Supplement
Club knowing you can do research on any product right here on our site. Our Customer Service Is Exceptional! We thrive on the strong relationships we build with our clients, and the repeat
business that comes along with that. Our business depends on it. We will do whatever we can to make sure you are completely satisfied with every order. Your Privacy Is Guaranteed. We
have never and will never give your personal information to any other company, period, and we NEVER keep your credit card info on file. (even a caveman can do it!)Our Shopping Cart
System Is So Quick & Easy! Just click order on the product you want, simply fill out your address and payment info and your done! You Can Pay By Interac Debit Card, Mastercard, Visa,
American Express, Money Order or Certified Check. Our server is 100% secure and we never keep any credit card information on file.