AU researchers awarded $1.4 million to study new canine lymphoma treatment _uburn University veterinary researchers have received a $1.4 million National Cancer Institute grant to study
targeted gene therapy for lymphoma, a project that could significantly change the treatment regimens for dogs and humans alike.A Dr. Bruce Smith of the College of Veterinary Medicine
Scott-Ritchey Research Center is leading an interdisciplinary team that will administer a genetically altered, non-replicating virus to lymphoma-affected dogs, followed by a drug that seeks out
and kills the virus-infected cancer cells. ene therapy is becoming more common in medical research, but what makes Aubum research unique is that we are modifying the virus to target, or
specifically infect, the lymphoma tumor cell,Dr. Smith said. e have also altered the virus so that it encodes a protein, which, when it comes in contact with the drug, converts the drug into a
toxic substance and that toxin kills the lymphoma cell.o:p> Lymphoma, the third most common cancer in dogs, is a rapidly growing malignancy that can occur anywhere there is lymph
tissue, including lymph nodes, spleen, liver, gastrointestinal tract and bone marrow.Average life expectancy for dogs undergoing the current form of treatment, chemotherapy, is about one year.
Without treatment, it is about two months from time of diagnosis. _ e have worked with targeted gene therapy for five years and have been researching lymphoma for one year,Dr. Smith said.
ur research will benefit pets directly and may possibly be applied to humans later, because lymphoma is very similar in dogs and humans.SPAN lang=EN style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt; FONT-FAMILY:
Verdana; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN"> The grant from the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, covers five years at Aubum, including
two years of laboratory work developing gene vectors and testing them on cells, followed by three years of clinical trials with dogs diagnosed with lymphoma. __ur clinics see 30 to 50 dogs
with lymphoma per year,Dr. Smith said. he only treatment is chemotherapy, so the owners who volunteer their dogs for the study have the added hope that this new gene therapy will help their
pets.o:p> Two years from now, when the clinical trial starts, pet owners with lymphoma-affected dogs will be able to participate in the trial at no additional cost, other than the normal
veterinary fees. Administering the virus and the drug will take three days, followed by occasional follow-up visits for observation for at least one year. are hoping that gene therapy will help
patients live longer, better quality lives,Dr. Smith said. ven though dogs do not usually have serious adverse reactions to chemotherapy, we want to provide a better type of treatment and
reduce their number of chemo visits. or humans, fewer chemotherapy treatments would mean fewerside-effects in addition to having longer lives. While a cure for lymphoma is everyone
goal, any increase in the remission time is significant for the patient.o:p> __If the research and clinical trials at Auburn University prove successful, then researchers at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham would apply Aubum findings to human medical research and possibly have clinical trials. Dr. David Curiel of UAB is a co-investigator on AU lymphoma research, as are
Auburn veterinary faculty Drs. Curtis Bird, Mary Lynn Higginbotham, Annette Smith and Elizabeth Whitley. one of the individuals could accomplish this project alone, but through
acollaborative effort we hope to help canine patients directly while adding to the knowledge base forcancer treatment in humans,Dr. Smith said.