While the field trips are always a lot of fun and a big part of the show, there are many other things to do at the Gem-O-Rama show building while it is open (Sat. 7:30am-Spm and Sun,
7:30am-4pm). Don't miss out on anything; see if you can participate in them all. Parking and show entry and are both Searles Lake Gem and Mineral Society GEM-O-RAMA See FLYER for
dates and times Other Show Activities and Dealers FREE! There are pink halite sales in the club's General Store where you can purchase a specimen of the beautiful Searles Lake pink halite
 There are 21 dealers that have been carefully selected to provide a wide variety of materials and products, and who are anxious to talk with you about their products. See who our dealers
are and what they have by clicking on . Dealers There are 50 exhibits showing the products of many people skilled in the lapidary arts, rare minerals, fossils, and many other hobbies of Trona
residents. And there is our unique 400 pound pink halite bowl, a pink halite bucket, and our huge specimen of pink halite with especially large crystals. There are demonstrations where you
can lear how to chip an arrowhead or make a polished rock sphere. There is geode cutting and sales. When you get hungry, there is the "Grub Portal" out in front for snacks, etc., and for a
more ambitious meal there is a inside serving full lunches both days and complete dinners Friday and Saturday nights.catered cafeteria And there are prizes. There are hourly door prizes
where you only have to register at the show entrance to have a chance to win. There is also a Grand Prize drawing where the purchase of tickets at $1 each gives you a chance to win valuable
prizes (shown at the show) and profits from the drawing will go to support a college scholarship for a graduate from a Trona school.FREEALL There is a video and lecture room where all day we
will show the video "Gem-O-Rama Field Trips to Searles Dry Lake". This video shows the whole story of all of the lake field trip including dramatic video of the blasting of the wells for the blow
hole field trip. We haven't forgotton the kids. We have a gem dig where they have a chance to "mine" beautiful polished stones. There are also games for the kids. Searles Lake Gem and
Mineral Society P. 0. Box 966