100% whole food vitamin and mineral supplements synthetic vitamin and mineral supplements While I firmly believe that regular use of whole food supplements can ensure optimal health, I
also believe that your primary source of natural vitamins, minerals, and other micronutrients and macronutrients should be fresh, whole foods (locally grown, whenever possible). What follows
is a list of all of the major vitamins and minerals that you need to be at your best, as well as common healthy foods that are naturally rich in each vitamin and mineral. If your health research
leads you to believe that you need to consume more of any particular vitamin or mineral, before you turn to whole food supplements, I encourage you to focus on eating more whole foods that
are rich in the vitamins and/or minerals that you need. Vitamin A Vitamin A is needed for night vision, healthy skin, proper digestion of protein, healthy mucosal linings, and a healthy immune
system. include: organic beef liver, cod liver oil, organic eggs, and organic butter. Vitamin A can also be obtained from beta carotene, which is found in a variety of plants, including spinach,
watercress, carrots, sweet potatoes, goji berries, and cantaloupe. Healthy foods that contain vitamin A Vitamin B1 - Thiamine Vitamin B1 is needed for proper brain function (especially
memory) and energy production. Healthy foods that contain vitamin B1 include: lentils, peas, brown tice, spinach, watercress, asparagus, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, raw pecans, and raw
brazil nuts. Vitamin B2 - Riboflavin Vitamin B2 is needed for healthy skin, healthy hair, healthy eyes, and energy production. include: organic beef liver, mushrooms, organic eggs, raw
almonds, organic beef, broccoli, spinach, organic chicken, asparagus, and wild salmon. Healthy foods that contain vitamin 82 Vitamin B3 - Niacin Vitamin B3 is needed for energy production,
proper brain function, healthy skin, and regulation of blood sugar and cholesterol levels. include: organic chicken, organic turkey, organic beef, wild salmon, lentils, lima beans, and asparagus
Healthy foods that contain vitamin B3. Vitamin 85 - Pantothenic Acid Vitamin BS is needed for energy production, healthy skin and hair, a healthy nervous system, and production of anti-stress
and anti-inflammatory hormone (cortisol). Healthy foods that contain vitamin BS include: organic chicken, organic egg, broccoli, lentils, split peas, avocado, sweet potato, and mushrooms.
Vitamin B6 - Pyridoxine Vitamin B6 is needed for prevention of breast and prostate cancer, production of red blood cells, and a healthy nervous system. include: potato, banana, wild salmon,
organic chicken, spinach, avocado, organic turkey, organic beef, collard greens, brown rice, and green peas. Healthy foods that contain vitamin 86 Vitamin B12 - Cyanocobalamin Vitamin B12
is needed for a healthy nervous system, energy production, red blood cell production, growth, maintenance, and reproduction of all of your cells. include: organic beef liver, wild salmon,
organic beef, raw, organic milk, organic cheese, organic eggs, organic, chicken, and organic turkey. Healthy foods that contain vitamin B12 Vitamin C Vitamin C is needed for maintenance of
bones, ligaments, tendons, and blood vessels, protection against free radicals and toxins, and production of norepinephrine, a hormone that is essential to a healthy nervous system. include:
acerola cherries, goji berties, sweet red bell peppers, strawberries, oranges, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, collard greens, grapefruit, cantaloupe, cabbage, and tomato. Healthy foods that contain
vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin D is needed for strong bones and teeth, a healthy immune system and protection against autoimmune disorders, regulation of blood sugar level, prevention of
high blood pressure, and cancer prevention. include: cod liver oil, wild salmon, sardines, and organic egg yolks. Healthy foods that contain vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin E is needed for healthy
blood circulation, protection against free radicals, and proper utilization of oxygen. Healthy foods that contain vitamin E include: cold pressed, extra virgin olive oil, raw almonds, spinach,
carrots, avocado, butter, and all dark green leafy vegetables Folate (Folic Acid) Folate is needed for proper neurological development of babies during the first few months of pregnancy, proper
growth, maintenance, and reproduction of all of your cells, including your red blood cells, and production of neurotransmitters that regulate your mood and sleep. include: lentils, chickpeas,
asparagus, spinach, organic beef liver, broccoli, lima beans, beets, romaine lettuce, and whole oranges. Healthy foods that contain folate Vitamin K Vitamin K is needed for proper blood
clotting and optimal mineralization of your bones. Healthy foods that contain vitamin K include: cold pressed, extra virgin olive oil, broccoli, raw kale, peas, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, raw
spinach, raw dark green leafy lettuce, raw Swiss chard, raw watercress, and raw parsley. Calcium Calcium is needed for strong teeth and bones, proper muscle growth and contraction, proper
blood clotting, proper functioning of heart and nerves, and regulation of blood pH to allow for proper transport of oxygen and carbon dioxide. include: sardines, Chinese cabbage, rhubarb,
spinach, salmon (wild, with bones), kale, white beans, bok choy, broccoli, pinto beans, and red beans Healthy foods that contain calcium Chloride Chloride is needed for regulation of acid-base
balance of your blood, proper digestion of protein and carbohydrates, and proper movement of fluids across all of your cellular membranes. Healthy foods that contain chloride include: small
amounts of mineral-dense sea salt, broths made from organic bones, celery, and coconut. Magnesium Magnesium is needed for prevention of dental cavities, strong bones, energy production,
regulation of heart rhythm, nerve signaling, and proper contraction and relaxation of your muscles. include: raw almonds, brown rice, spinach, Swiss chard, lima beans, avocado, organic
peanuts, hazelnuts, okra, and black-eyed peas. Healthy foods that contain magnesium Phosphorus Phosphorus is needed for strong bones and teeth, energy production, proper kidney
function, regulation of blood pH, and proper growth of all of your cells. Phosphorus is found in almost all foods. As long as you consistently eat a wide variety of whole, minimally processed
foods, you will get enough phosphorus for your daily needs. Potassium Potassium is needed for proper movement of nutrients, waste products, and fluids in and out of cells. Healthy foods
that contain potassium include: almost all vegetables, grains, and nuts. Sodium Sodium is needed for proper muscle contraction and relaxation, movement of fluids in and out of cells,
regulation of acid-base balance, and proper nerve functioning. As long as you eat a variety of whole, minimally processed foods, you will get all the sodium you need. Sulphur Sulphur is
needed for: protection against infection, electromagnetic radiation, and pollution, and to provide structure to all of your cell membranes. Healthy foods that contain sulphur include: cauliflower,
broccoli, cabbage, organic eggs, wild fish, and free-range birds. Boron Boron is needed for healthy bones. Healthy foods that contain boron include: apples, leafy green vegetables, raw nuts,
and whole grains. Chromium Chromium is needed for regulation of blood sugar, prevention of heart disease and adult-onset diabetes, and proper production of protein, fat, and cholesterol
include: corn on the cob, sweet potatoes, apples, organic eggs, tomatoes, and broccoli. Healthy foods that contain chromium Cobalt Cobalt is needed for proper assimilation of iron. Healthy
foods that contain cobalt indude: all healthy animal foods (organic eggs, wild fish, free range meat). Copper Copper is needed for production of skin color, proper nerve signaling, proper
metabolism of iron, production of energy, formation of bone, and maintenance of strong connective tissue in your heart and blood vessels. Healthy foods that contain copper include: organic
beef liver, raw cashews, raw sunflower seeds, raw hazelnuts, raw almonds, organic peanut butter, mushrooms, lentils, and whole oats. Germanium Germanium is needed for protection against
food allergies, and prevention of Candida overgrowth, viral infections, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. Healthy foods that contain germanium include: garlic, mushrooms, ginseng, and onions.
@ Iodine Iodine is needed for healthy pregnancy and breast feeding, prevention of brain damage, proper thyroid function, and production of sex hormones. Healthy foods that contain iodine
include: sea salt, sea weeds, fish broth, organic butter, artichokes, asparagus, and most dark green vegetables. Iron Iron is needed for oxygen transport and storage, energy production, and
protection against free radicals. include: organic beef, organic beef liver, organic chicken, kidney beans, lentils, organic eggs, wild fish, and dark green leafy vegetables. Healthy foods that
contain iron Manganese Manganese is needed for protection against free radicals, proper bone development, wound healing, healthy nerves, a healthy immune system, formation of mothers
milk, and blood sugar regulation. Healthy foods that contain manganese include: pineapple, raw pecans, raw almonds, brown rice, pinto beans, lima beans, navy beans, spinach, sweet
potatoes, and organic butter fat. Molybdenum Molybdenum is needed for absorption of iron, metabolism of nitrogen, and protection against free radicals and toxins. Healthy foods that contain
molybdenum include: beans, lentils, peas, whole grains, and raw nuts. Selenium Selenium is needed for: protection against free radicals, carcinogens, and infections, and a healthy heart.
Healthy foods that contain selenium include: raw Brazil nuts, wild salmon, brown rice, organic chicken, organic beef, and organic butter. Silicon Silicon is needed for healthy teeth,bones,
cartilage, skin, hair, and nails, protection against arteriosclerosis, and protection against aluminum, Healthy foods that contain silicon include: millet, corn, ground flax seeds, and the stems of
green vegetables. Vanadium Vanadium is needed for formation of bones and teeth, growth and reproduction, and regulation of blood cholesterol levels. Healthy foods that contain vanadium
include: whole grains (particularly buckwheat) and olives. Zinc Zinc is needed for mental and emotional balance, a healthy immune system, strong teeth and bones, energy production, and
protection against free radical damage. include: organic beef, organic beef liver, lima beans, organic/wild turkey, split peas, chick peas, raw cashews, raw pecans, raw almonds, green peas,
organic eggs, and ginger root. Healthy foods that contain zinc Choline (converted to Trimethylglycine) Choline is needed for structural support for all of your cells, a healthy nervous system,
and prevention of fat and cholesterol build up in your liver. include: organic beef liver, organic eggs, organic beef, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, wild salmon, and organic peanut butter. Healthy
foods that contain choline For more guidance on how to ensure optimal nourishment with natural vitamins and minerals, please view: Guide to Using Whole Food Vitamins and Minerals to
Support Your Health If you think this article is worth sharing with the world, please buzz it up at Yahoo by clicking here. Article Tools