Jump to: , navigation search Chinese written language employs the , or Hanzi (110 H nz , Han4 zi4, which are named after the Han culture to whom itis largely attributed.) In and , Han
characters were adopted and integrated into their languages and became and , respectively. Japan still uses Kanji as an integral part of its writing system; however, Korea's use of Hanja has
diminished (indeed, it is not used at all in North Korea.) Han characters pinyin Japan Korea Kanji Hanja The Chinese writing system is mostly , i.e., each expresses a mono part, also known as
a. This is helped by the fact that 90%+ of Chinese morphemes are monosyllabic. Multisyllabic words have a separate logogram for each syllable. Some, but not all, Han characters are , but
most Han Chinese characters have forms that were based on their pronounciation rather than their meanings, so they do not directly express ideas. logographic character syllabic word
morpheme ideographs Chinese characters appear to have originated in the as depicting concrete objects. Over the course of the and dynasties, the characters became more and more stylistic.
In addition, characters were added for words based on the sound of the word. Shang dynasty pictograms Zhou Han The relationship between Chinese spoken language and Chinese written
language is complex. The numerous variations spoken by the Chinese have gone through centuries of evolution since at least the late-. However, written Chinese has much diverged less than
spoken language, due to Chinese's logographic script. Until the 20th century, most formal written Chinese was done in , which was very different from the any of the spoken varieties of Chinese
in much the same way that was different from modern . A different set of characters which were closer to the spoken language was used to write informal work such as colloquial novels. After
the , the formal standard for written Chinese has been , whose grammar and vocabulary of which are similar but not identical to those of modern spoken Mandarin. Han dynasty classical
Chinese Classical Latin Romance languages May Fourth Movement Vernacular Chinese Chinese characters are understood as morphemes which are independent of phonetic change. Thus,
although one is "yi" in Mandarin", "yat" in Cantonese and "tsit" in Hokkien, they derive from a common ancient Chinese word and hence still share an identical character: J. Nevertheless, the
dialects are not absolutely identical in orthography; the vocabularies used in the different dialects have diverged. In addition, while literary vocabulary is often shared among all dialects (at
least in orthography; the readings are different), colloquial vocabularies are often different. The complex interaction between Chinese written and spoken language can be illustrated with
There are two standards used in writing Cantonese, formal written Cantonese and colloquial written Cantonese. Formal written Cantonese is very similar to written Mandarin and can be read by
a Mandarin speaker without much difficulty. However, formal written Cantonese is rather different from spoken Cantonese. Colloquial written Cantonese is more similar to spoken Cantonese but
is largely unreadable by an untrained Mandarin speaker. Cantonese Cantonese is unique among non-Mandarin dialects in having a widely used written standard. The other dialects do not have
alternate written standards, but many have local characters or use characters which are archaic in bai hua. As with other aspects of Chinese language, the distinction between different written
standards is not sharp and there can be a socially accepted continuum between the written standards. Chinese characters have also been adapted to write and neither of which are linguistically
related to Chinese. In order to do so, complicated adaptations have had to have been made in order to take into account radically different grammars. Japanese Korean Contents