Daily Digest Government Printing Office (1947-present) The is the key to finding information in the . It is much like a table of contents in a book, but is found in the back of each daily edition
of the . The permanent edition of the includes a Daily Digest volume which cumulates each issue for the year.Daily Digest Congressional Record RecordRecord Chamber and committee
activities are summarized separately for the Senate and House. Measures introduced and passed, amendment activity, appointments, nominations, and roll call votes from the previous meeting
are listed with page numbers to those actions within the full text.Records Although the does not contain transcripts of committee hearings (which are published separately), the Daily Digest
does summarize committee activities, and provides lists of committee meetings scheduled for that day or the next day, including the topic of the hearing and a list of witnesses. At the end of
the legislative week, usually on Friday, the Digest contains a section outlining the "Congressional Program Ahead with details of upcoming floor and committee schedules. It lists times of
meetings of both houses; measures reported, considered or signed into law; measures scheduled for action during the next meeting and the announcements of upcoming committee meetings.
Its pages are numbered separately and are preceded by the letter . At the beginning of each month, the provides a cumulative statistical summary of congressional activity for the
year.Congressional RecordD Resume of Congressional Activity Many of the books listed on senate.gov can be found at your local public library or a government depository library, or can be
purchased on the Web or from a bookstore. will help you get started. This guide Follow this guide on how to contact your Senators by phone, postal mail, or on the Web. Information about
any senator, representative, vice president, or member of the Continental Congress. The United States Senate: An Institutional Bibliography includes more than six hundred citations to
books, articles and government documents printed since 1789,