Coberly Chiropractic: Serving Loveland and the Surrounding Front Range since 1999. Related Information Butter vs. Margarine Margarine was originally manufactured to fatten turkeys. When
it killed the turkeys, the people who had put all the money into the research wanted a payback, so they put their heads together to figure out what to do with this product to recoop their
money. It was a white substance with no food appeal, so they added the yellow coloring and sold it to people to use in place of butter. How do you like it? They have come out with some clever
new flavorings. Do you know the difference between margarine and butter? Both have the same amount of calories. Butter is slightly higher in saturated fats at 8 grams compared to 5

grams. Eating margarine can increase heart disease in women by 53% over eating the same amount of butter, according to a recent Harvard Medical Study. Eating butter increases the
absorption of many other nutrients in other foods. Butter has many nutritional benefits where margarine has a few only because they are added! Butter tastes much better than margarine,
and it can enhance the flavors of other foods. Butter has been around for centuries; whereas, margarine has been around for less than 100 years. And now, for margarine... Very high in trans
fatty acids. Triples risk of coronary heart disease. Increases total cholesterol and LDL, which is the bad cholesterol, and lowers HDL cholesterol, which is the good cholesterol. This fact alone
was enough to have me avoiding margarine for life and anything else that is hydrogenated. (This means hydrogen is added, which changes the molecular structure of the substance.) You can
try this yourself: Purchase a tub of margarine and leave it in your garage or shaded area. Within a couple of days you will note a couple of things: Would you melt your Tupperware and spread
that on your toast? Increases the risk of cancers up to five fold. Lowers quality of breast milk. Decreases immune response. And here's the most disturbing fact.... Margarine is but away
from being . one moleculeplastic No flies--not even those pesky fruit flies--will go near it, and that should tell you something. It does not rot or smell differently because it has no nutritional
value; nothing will grow on it. Even those teeny weeny microorganisms will not a find a home to grow. Why? Because it is nearly plastic