Press Releases Premier Advertising Award For Minority Students Won By Two at Long Island UniversityLIs Brooklyn Campus 1 AAF Recognizes Single Mom Tanya Sweetie and Vietnam Vet
David Glover 0 Brooklyn, N.Y. CI The American Advertising Federation named two at Long Island UniversityOs Brooklyn Campus to its 2004 Most Promising Minority Students Program, which
connects leading advertisers and agencies with the nationCis top college seniors nationwide. The AAF is sending 32 of the best and brightest minority students of advertising to the Waldorf
Astoria in New York City on February 12-13. They will take part in a unique program with networking opportunities, plus interviewing and coaching from industry professionals. Marketing senior
president of the Marketing Society, will attend as a finalist for the program; , also a marketing senior, was selected as a member of the Honor Roll. The students exemplify the determination
typical of the Brooklyn Campus Ci she is a young single mom; he is a 59-year-old Vietnam veteran. Tanya M. Sweetie of St. Albans, QueensDavid Glover of Crown Heights, Brooklyn Born in
Brooklyn, raised in Harlem and residing in Queens, Sweetie is a true New Yorker. A single mother who also works and attends school full-time, she serves as an excellent role model for her
nine-year-old daughter. The key to juggling all her responsibilities, she says is "to keep a planner, a cell-phone, a computer and people who can keep me motivated." SweetieCls role model,
according to the essay she submitted to qualify for the AF program, is Ann Fudge, the chief executive of Young & Rubicam Inc, the first African American to lead a major advertising firm.
"What most inspires me is that she broke through the proverbial glass ceiling, defying all notions about race and gender status quo in corporate America," says Sweetie. Sweetie came to
Long Island University after earning an associateCls degree from Monroe College. "I like everything about marketing, she says. "It allows you to combine business with creative skills, the
opportunities for growth are endless and there are many options for career choices. ItCis one of those fields where you cannot get bored." Consistently on the Dean(s List, Sweetie says,
"Excellence is a standard and you have to be willing to hold that standard very high." A member of Alpha Chi, the national college honor society, and listed in "WhoLs Who Among College
Students," she wants to go on to law school and become an entertainment lawyer. For David Glover, a father of three and vocalist in his church choir, being named to AAFCIs Honor Roll has
been a source of wonder. "I am amazed at receiving this honor and amused that I am even here. But it is a good confidence builder, a statement of awareness that I have something to offer,
says the native of Wilmington, Delaware. Raised by his father, Glover says, "I am the product of a family that is marginally educated 0 my father was illiterate." Education was not easy for him
to get either, although he had academic ability. He recalls that $12.69 changed his life D that was the amount he needed to complete registration for his junior year at a regional college

Unable to pay, he was told he could not continue his studies. As a result, he joined the Marines and served 13 months in Vietnam. To this day, he suffers from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. In
1969, he came to Brooklyn and stayed. Over the years, he married twice, had children and worked in various sales positions at major corporations. He also worked providing support services
for attorneys. "I did everything except argue points of law and type," he says. Glover has also been able to pursue acting at the National Black Theater, and now is back singing after a 25-year
break to earn a living. About a decade ago, one day at church with his young daughter, he recalls hearing a voice tell him to get back to his music. "It created the most profound feeling," he
says. "It took me on a journey learning about what faith is." He now sings for the First AME Zion Church of Brooklyn, and has toured Europe with different choirs.. Glover recognizes that his
career has followed an unusual path. "Most black men in America do not have the selectivity - IClve followed what I liked. IDive been able to be creative." He attributes it to "the magnificence
of God." In 2003, he decided to complete his education at LIU, where he is able to combine two of his loves. "They have a fine vocal jazz program and a good marketing program," he says.

For his essay for AAF, he chose Madame C.1. Walker, the first black millionaire in the early 1900s as a manufacturer of hair products for black women. "I found her to be an excellent role model
for men and women. She came up from the ranks of the poor and itinerant and was self-made." For the future, Glover hopes to develop a music production company and is working on that
right now. "I intend to market and advertise my craft," he says. "My motto like the MarinesC is 0 always faithful."Semper Fidelis Long Island Universitys Brooklyn Campus opened in 1926,
welcoming a diverse population at a time when other major universities enforced quota systems against racial and ethnic minorities. More than 30,000 students currently are enrolled at the
University's three residential and three regional compuses, including more than 11,000 at the Brooklyn Campus.