(You can preview and edit on the next page) What Other Visitors Have Said Click below to see contributions from other visitors to this page... My fianchas a daughter who passed away in
August of 2001. She was born with medical problems. She only lived 13 months. She lived in the hospital ... Concerned and confused My mother and father split up before I was even born. I
am now 17 years old, and I have not met my father or received child support from him. Every time ... Not Sure What to do I am the wife of a Veteran that is currently in jail for non payment
of child support from the state of California. His wife at the time while he was in ... Disabled Veteran _I was divorced in Dec. 95, and since then it has been an up hill climb for my children to
get from their father what is owed to them. This is not the first ... Waiting after 15 years I was reading up top and noticed that it says that if you owe back child support you will not in some
cases be able to get a job. What kind of crap is ... Child Support is Bull!!! This is a very exhausting journey for me. I have been trying to collect child support forever. My son father became
the biggest loser after our split ... Mother of One _I WAS DIVORCE IN 2001 AND THOUGHT MY DAYS OF BEING IN HELL WHERE OVER. BUT TO MY SUPRISE MY WALK HAD JUST BEGAIN. FIRST
HE REFUSED TO SIGN ANY PAPERS SIMPLY ... HE DIVORCE HIS KIDS TOO I have 2(two) children in age 13 to 11 and and I've been on a journey to trying to recover child support from my
children for the last 3 years. So far... Dead Beat Dad My ex is supposed to be paying child support. I even agreed to a lesser amount than the court wanted, so he would have money to
enjoy the visitation with ... Ineed help! No one will help us! Just the beginning... . As a non-custodial parent (NCP), am I the only one that deems the process unfair? Am I the only one that
is now struggling to ... Is there any help for non-custodial parents I have been taking care of my 3 handsome,wonderful boy's by myself for years.God could'nt have sent me better
children.They are awesome in school,they ... Alabama Dead Beat Dad _ How can you collect back child support when your kid's are out of school already? My ex has a settelment coming from
hurting his shoulder at work. He owes ... Confused I have never receive a payment and its been 11 months since the court ordered the child support payments. Maybe they haven't gone after
her because its ... Hortible Experience Well, I just learned that in the State of California there is no statute of limitations on the collection of child support owed. After learning my husband
Curious Mom My ex-husband and I have been divorced for 10 years. Our son is 13 now. Five years ago I got married and at the time he was a city letter carrier for ... deadbeat dad My
daughter is 11 years old now, she has not seen or heard from her father sense she was two. The day he walked out of her life was the day I told him ... Too bad, so sad_ My ex-husband is
been on childsupport since our son was two, he now 17yrs old. I recently receive a letter from dhr in Montgomery Al. They collect 1200.... mother of child Being a single mom with three
children I struggled to make ends meet. The Child Support Enforcement Office was no help to me. The caseworker I was assigned ... Does the system work? I believe the AG office in Temple
has knowingly deceived me. Paid from social security while I was on disability. Collected from my social security for ... The AG's offices violates the law The child support system in Florida
sucks. If you are not collecting public assistance, you can forget about this agency helping you. I am now on unemployment ... Tired of being jerked around, owes 72,000.00 My ex-wife is a
mental case! I took her to court 4 years ago and got the kids. She will not pay child support but she will insist on seeing them whenever ... Mental Mom and Child Support Iam a
non-custodial parent and I would love to pay my share of child support. I am a long distance truck driver and several years ago I lost my job. I ... Mr. Jones _In 1989, I was married with four
children. I was a stay at home mom, ran a daycare in my home, home schooled my kids, and was a foster parent. My marriage ... Mom of 4, Sentenced to Jail ~My son is grown, but because
of repeated hospitalizations and recovery times--not working, before they put me on SSDI, I have a $3000 child support arrearage... Disabled Father My ex-wife left the country with a man
in the German army 3 years ago and has not seen our children since. She has been ordered to pay child support and ... Dead Beat Mom _ Is it enough? God, I ask myself that everyday. A lot
recently though while I have been considering taking the father of my son back to court for more "child ... What is the fight for? The father of my biological daughter is also the father to 3
other children. Two reside in Tennessee with their mother, his first wife, two in Kansas, one ... 4x a father, never a dad Iam a step parent actually but my husband was married before and
had 3 kids. ALL OF THEM got to stay with MOM. Yet now the oldest has went into the navy... Why me Why don't fathers have any rights except when the mother is a drug abusing lying son
of a gun. Im a proud father of a little soon to be 2yr old boy whos ... Where Are My Rights My ex lives in Arizona, I asked for a review of the child support amount in October 2007 and have
not received a payment since. I have called repeatedly ... Arizona Child Support Issue My ex and I divorced in 1993, in the state of California there was no child support ordered, she lived in
Texas I lived in Wyoming and 1/2 in California... Confused I'm not really sure if child support is the right terminology. Maybe it should be called, child chump change, or child Burger King
money. For the last ... Child Support ....Wowwwww! I raised my daughter without the help of her father from July 1990 to Nov. 1996 when a child support order was issued he then paid when
he chose to or ... Forced to accept $100 a month when owed $30,000. After a 18 year marriage my wife decided to spread her wings (I say her legs) but anyway, when she decided to leave I
had just lost my job. During the ... We Need A Change I AM REAL CONCERNED ABOUT THE AMERICAN TAX PAYERS DOLLARS BEING WASTED. LET ME TRY TO EXPLAIN, THIS WOULD BE ONE
OF MANY SUCH CASES HANDELED BY OUR STATE... HELP I took my sons father to court for child support and health insurance coverage, I call him a father for lack of a better word, he
wants nothing to do with ... Custodial Parent - Mother My daughter's father lives in AL, and we reside in NC. We have had an interstate action between the 2 states for over 4 years now, and
my daughter's father ... Interstate Enforcement of Child Support I am a mother, and I don't understand how AFDC recipients can get a team of legal representation to go in and ruin these
guys lives. A financial system ... Enoughs Enough Already!!! After separating from my husband, I filed for a divorce and was able to collect child support benefits at the time of the divorce.
It's been 5 years and ... Possible Increase In Funds My ex and I divorced 24 years ago. The mother was granted custody, I received visitation we share 1 surviving child now 24. She/ they left
AZ in 1990 what ... Arizona Child Support _ 15 years we have been together, they were together for a couple of years. He was 18-19 years old, she was 28-29 years old. Divorced, already with
two kids,... I'm The New Wife, The Only Wife, She was Nothing to Him!