A S Instatistical terms, a poker hand is a of size 5 drawn without replacement and without regard to order from the population . For more on this topic, see the chapter on . random sample D
Finite Sampling Models The Value of the Hand There are nine different types of poker hands in terms of value. We will use the numbers 0 to 8 to denote the of the hand, where 0 is the type
of least value (actually no value) and 8 the type of most value. Thus, the hand value is a random variable taking values 0 through 8, and is defined as follows: value . The hand is of none of
the other types. No Value . The hand has 2 cards of one kind, and one card each of three other kinds. One Pair . The hand has 2 cards of one kind, 2 cards of another kind, and one card of a
third kind. Two Pair . The hand has 3 cards of one kind and one card in each of two other kinds. Three of a Kind . The kinds of cards in the hand form a consecutive sequence but the cards
are not all in the same suit. An ace can be considered the smallest denomination or the largest denomination. Straight . The cards are all in the same suit, but the kinds of the cards do not
form a consecutive sequence. Flush . The hand has 3 cards of one kind and 2 cards of another kind. Full House . The hand has 4 cards of one kind, and 1 card of another kind. Four of a
Kind . The cards are all in the same suit and the kinds form a consecutive sequence. Straight Flush Run the 10 times in single-step mode. For each outcome, note that the value of the
random variable corresponds to the type of hand, as given above. poker experiment The Probability Density Function Computing the probability density function of is a good exercise in
combinatorial probability. In the following exercises, you will need to use the two fundamental rules of to count the number of poker hands of a given type: the multiplication rule and the
addition rule. You will also need to remember some basic , particularly combinations. We give some hints on constructing an algorithm for generating the poker hands of the given type. V
Show that the number of different poker hands is S