BIBLIOGRAPHY AND HISTORY Bloom, Harold. : Riverhead Books, 2003Hamlet: Poem Unlimited Champion, Larry S. Journal of General Education, 27 (1976), pp. 265-80"By Indirections Find
Directions Out': The Soliloquies in Hamlet." Clemen, W. . Folcroft Library Editions, 1977Shakespeare(s Soliloquies Eissler, K. International Universities Press, 1971 Discourse on Hamlet and
HAMLET. McDonnell, William E, "." Text and Performance Quarterly, 10:3 (1990 July), pp. 227-34.The Shakespearean Soliloquy: A Problem of Focus Prosser, E. , 1971.Hamlet and Revenge
Stanford University Press. Skiffington, L. to Shakespeare: Rowman and Littlefield, 1985.The History of the English Soliloquy: Aeschylus THE SOLILOQUIES IN CAN BE ANALYZED ACCORDING
TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEME: place the soliloquy somewhere between the alternatives and justify... HISTORICAL NOTES: GENERAL SOLILOQUY FRAME OF REFERENCE: A SHAKESPEARE PLAY
@ THEOCENTRIC MEDIEVAL REALISM REFLECTION VIRTUE AUTHORITY FAITH GEOCENTRIC DRAMATIC RELEVANCE HOMOCENTRIC RENAISSANCE NOMINALISM SENSATION VIRTUOSO
EXPERIENCE REASON HOMOCENTRIC ? Using the chart, classify the soliloquies according to the following. Which are... A-metaphysical--most commonly associated with Hamlet B-examples of
intense verbal fury--Lear in the storm C-obsessive-Iago psychopathic rage at Othello D-delay orientated--again sometimes associated with Hamlet [Coleridge's thesis of excessive reflection. ] ?
 --part of the dramatization of consciousness as in especially the turning point passage in which he finally admits culpabilityMedievalEveryman, --(what Shakespeare
inherited):RenaissanceTraditional Exposition in terms of: A-PLOT--how to dramatize intrigue as in 01", that is, what action follows this passage? B-ROLE OF ?--the opening of -- IMacbeth:Our
fears in Banquo stick deep Richard IIINow is the winter...[ Note that although both passage advance the plots: to kill Banquo and Clarence ., they nonetheless show Shakespeare's ability to
blend the dramatic and psychological, as will be discussed belowet.al Psychological development--more unique to Shakespeare: -Iago and Edmund, but note as explicated in the Othello pages
of this site, that Iago's pose special difficulties. he warns. The passages offer differing interpretations of the issue posed by Coleridge. Edmund - Iago-like in some respects can simultaneously
invoke Medieval metaphysics and curse it depending on the circumstances as does Iago on Hamlet: Cland Macbeth: Hamlet, in a scene so horrible, according to Dr. Johnson, that it should
barely be dramatized wishes Claudius truly damned [or is it that he would now rather ] to Gertrude? Macbeth, in the theme passage of the play, reveals the depth but narrow focus of his
imagination. He sees Duncan alive and dead simultaneously, so . -as in Everyman who goes to the grave knowing that Good Deeds alone save [Luther notwithstanding], or Macbeth's warming
that the very angels will plead the death of Duncan.PERSONALITY IDENTIFICATION-"I am not who I am,"Othello"motiveless malignancy" reputation." REFLECTIVE--i.e.:perturbation of the
mind:CINow Might I...,111Two truths...01"...speak daggers but use none,"Nothing is but what is not." THE DIDACTIC SOLILOQUY-"trumpet tongued against..." Dynamics of the Soliloquy: 1
usually the dramatization of consciousness--a character on the stage reveals ? Shakespeare made the soliloquy more of a psychological device than an expository one. 2. A soliloquy may be
addressed to: a---the traditional textbook read--The Fool in at the end of Act I b---an easy way to read Hamlet if the introspective, philosophical Prince of Olivier is studied c---Macbeth's brain
may indeed be diseased, although the passage could be didactic too in that this is the last warning he allows himself before the murder. d---obviously the best example is Lear's Act III storm
scenes, during which the microcosm reflects the macrocosm: the in his mind. e-Although seemingly a conversation, he is so introspectively horrified that her presence is not noticed. Try reading
the lines omitting her 'responses.'the audienceLear the self a thing (dagger)"heat oppressed" nature"tempest" another character--or perhaps an aside, as the Iago - Roderigo conversations
are little more than sounding boards for Iago, since Roderigo knows little of Iagos intent, but the best example follows the murder of Duncan""Macbeth doth murder sleep..." Some critical
perspectives: McDonnell quoting Clemen: "Today we tend to associate the soliloquy primarily with mediation and the expression of emotion, with introspection, and with what Matthew Arnold
called Cithe dialogue of the mind with itself Yet, in pre-Shakespearean drama it was only occasionally used for purposes which had to do with reflection or inner conflict: more often if fulfilled
the function of the chorus...of clarification of the plot C1To what extent does the soliloquy now also give expression to a false or distorted self-image, to an element of self-deception, or even a
deliberate attempt to deceive others?0]_:Observation of McDonnell Should the soliloquies be addressed to the audience or remain introspective? :Clemen notes HamletThere are more than
300 soliloquies total in all 37 plays, and 61 cluster in the tragedies ranging from a half a line to 581/2 lines (: Ch what a rogue...11) CShakespeareCIs soliloquies became an organic part of
his dramatic compositions, and this process began early on...the soliloquy expresses something which has all the appearance of inevitability and credibility. Shakespeare lets his soliloquies
confirms what the audience and reader already know, fulfilling at once the expectations of the audience and the demands of dramatic art.) Instructor comment: Do Shakepeare's characters
think dialectically, treating first concepts as assumptions. Do they pose a thesis, antithesis, synthesis which, Hegel like, continuously evolves to...? [Click here for Plato] If Harold Bloom is
correct in , his consciousness is so vast that it even races ahead of his creator: (pp. 112/136)Hamlet: Poem Unlimited"It is Hamlet's Triumph over Shakespeare...that the prince implicitly
persuades us he knows more than his creator does...Hamlet longs for a mighty opposite, and discovers he has to be his own."