Share This Lesson URL: This entry was posted on Tuesday, October 9th, 2007 at 6:30 pm and is filed under . You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from
your own site. Korean Culture Class RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback 28 Responses to Culture Class #2 - Hangul says: KoreanClass101.com Has anyone else out there had a great vision
while on the toilet?? Also, does anyone have any North Korean words to share with the rest of the community? says: t Nope no visions while on the toilet. These culture classes are
entertaining, I like the laid back feel. says: October 10th, 2007 at 12:23 am There are quite a few interesting North Korean words that Korean learners might find very very amusing
Womens bras are called Cl here, but in North Korea they call them C1 (and * menas a belt or a strip) some more examples of the Korean words YOU know translated into the North Korean
version : y((green tea) > xx((blue+tea) |(goalkeeper) > 8 O(door + guard) x(shampoo) -> 8 DO(hair+soap) )(heading) -> 8 O(head+hit) says: And in the photo above, the picture to
the left is the shape of the first and original design of \O, right after it was made by the King Sejong. says: As Koreans, we have classes in middle school and high school on how to read the
classic \D and traslate it into the modern-day \C.. Its quite interesting! except when you have to take tests on it. says: Jacqueline (t ) October 10th, 2007 at 10:41 am I still cant imagine
how someone (specially a king lol) can come up with inventing an alphabet or anything while in the toilet hahahaha! I guess he was too bored ! And was he having some kind of stomach
problems haha? constipated maybe? cause i guess he spent some hours there to have time to create an alphabet haha. So he really saw the shape of the window or was something else? LOL
@ He probably told a friend: this is how i came up with that idea and told him please dont tell anyone LOL But he couldnt keep that secret haha. It was to good to keep it for himself. says: Jo
 Paulo" October 10th, 2007 at 12:16 pm I really loved this culture class. Thank you very much. I leamed a lot about Korea. I unfortunately havent been able to be studying Korean right
now, but at least I can follow those culture classes. About the toilet... that was a really weird question in the first post, I was a little shocked when I read that, but I believe good ideas can
happen anywhere. If I were the King, I'd probably never tell I created an alphabet while staying there, though. I dont even want to try to imagine what kind of associations he made to create
it!!! About mongolian birthmark, that wasnt that much surprising. My mother worked with kids in the past and one of the girls there had a Mongolian father, so she talked to the mother to see
if the girl was getting spanked or something. That's when she discovered about this and told us. I believe my comment is getting long, but I just wanted to say how I liked this lesson, specially
when you talked about the differences between North and South Korean. Bye October 10th, 2007 at 4:53 pm Nice culture class! I wished all my Korean dassmates a happy Hangeul day, and
almost all of them said really? Today?" I also was going to ask them if they had blue arses when they were little kids, but it never seemed right... I have a Mongolian classmate too, I'll ask him
one day (I just have to try and get conversation onto arse bruises somehow so it doesnt seem weird... on the other hand I have already asked almost all classmates \I?) says: October 10th,
2007 at 6:47 pm Wow, Max, to be honest, I'm SHOCKED that your friends didnt know that today was \Cl . Maybe there were in China for a very long time, or maybe they didnt know that
yesterday was October 9th? And as for the Mongolian birthmarks, try asking your friends again using the words  it(butt)x C1O(Mongolian birthmark)". I'm sure they'll know. says: