Portsmouth Center for EMS Training Center 3619 High Street, Suite A Portsmouth, VA 23707Location: Course Dates: June 15-20, 2009 9:00am - 5:00pm November 2-7, 2009 9:00am -
5:00pm Pre-registration Deadline: June 8, 2009 October 27, 2009 Tuition does not include textbooks, or written and practical testing fees.Tuition: $250 Application Fee (non-refundable)
$250 if paid the pre-registration deadiineby $350 if paid the pre-registration deadlineafter Tuition Policy: Application Fee is due at time of registration. Tuition is expected to be paid in full
by the first scheduled class. Payment may be by cash, check, money order, Visa, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express. Students enrolling where fees are paid by the employer / agency
must submit written authorization or valid purchase order with the application. Student application fees are non refundable ($250). Application Process: The completed student application
form, tuition and all supporting documentation should be submitted as soon as possible to reserve class position. The following supporting documentation must be submitted with the
completed student application: Copy of current AHA BLS for Healthcare Provider 2005 Guidelines or ARC Professional Rescuer certification card 2005 Copy of current Paramedic certification

 Course Description: The 48-hour EMT-Paramedic Refresher Course is a review of the skills and knowledge covered in the EMT-Paramedic Course. The EMT-Paramedic Refresher Course meets
Category 1 required hours for re-certification for the National Registry and is approved by the Commonwealth of Virginia OEMS. The EMT-Paramedic Refresher Course is a vehicle to inform
participants of changes in emergency care such as new equipment, current science, research, and updates from the American Heart Association and issues of general concern to EMS providers.
This course also provides the student with a BLS renewal, ACLS renewal, PALS renewal, and PEPP Provider certification. This program may be taken to complete required national registry
EMT-Intermediate and Paramedic CEU requirements and the state of Virginia EMT Enhanced requirements. The Center for EMS Training reserves the right to change certification courses offered
during this program. Textbooks for initial certification programs are at an additional charge. Please contact our office for more information on the purchase of textbooks or if you have any
further questions. .*Class subject to cancellation for lack of sufficient enrollment