Fun Facts It all began in the third century AD when this pristine island, at the end of the Malay Peninsula, was used as a trading post by merchants sailing to China. The first settlers were the
Malays, who came around the seventh century and called their newfound fishing settlement "Temasek" or "Sea Town". It was known as Temasek for many centuries, until a Sumatran prince
named Sri Tri Buana (popularly known as Sang Nila Utama) set foot on the island around 1299, sighted a lion, made the island his new kingdom and called it "Singapura" or "Lion City" in
Sanskrit. The fifth king of Singapura, Parameswara, who was later overthrown by the Majapahit Empire of East Java, fled north and founded the Malacca Sultanate. Some Malays believe that it
is his tomb that lies in today. Centuries passed, then Singapore's modem history started when Sir Stamford Raffles stepped ashore in 1819CJan event so significant the was erected at the
landing site on the banks of the . An astute visionary, Raffles quickly struck a treaty with the local chieftains to set up a British trading post. The Union Jack was raised and soon Singapore
established itself as a free trading port. Exponential population growth then followed, with Malays, Chinese, Indians, Arabs and Europeans pouring onto the island, bringing with them an eclectic
mix of cuisines, languages and cultures. A town plan was formulated and over the years took the form of the ethnic enclaves we see today, and . In 1823, the Johor-Riau Sultanate sold
Singapore outright to the British for 60,000 Spanish dollars. A proliferation of buildings then ensuedCithe opened in the 1850s as the whites-only recreational centre, the Singapore Town Hall
(now ) became the administrative building in 1862, and the opened for business in 1887. With the increasing occurrence of fires, the at Hill Street was established in 1909, equipped with
modern fire-fighting facilities. Singapore's phenomenal progress took a downtum with the outbreak of World War IT. The island fell into the hands of the Japanese during what Winston Churchill
called "the worst disaster and the largest capitulation in British history." Hundreds were massacred at the , thousands were gunned down at , prisoners of war were subjected to harsh military
training at the , and many other horrifying events marked the 3 years of Japanese rule. After the war the British returned to regain control, but by then the locals wanted a voice of their own
and started fighting for independence. In 1959, Lee Kuan Yew, the first elected Prime Minister, announced the state's self-government on the steps of the . Under Lee's administration,
Singapore was transformed from a third world trading port to a highly developed nation in a short span of 35 years. After years of persistent urban development, however, much of the city's
charming past has given way to stolid skyscrapers and shopping malls. It was only in 1980s that conservation and restoration plans were launched by the government, saving architectural
goldmines such as the Peranakan (Straits Chinese) houses on , godowns along and shophouses at from the demolition ball. Singapore today is the economic miracle of South-east Asia, with the
world's best airport (), the world's busiest port, the world's third largest petroleum refinery and a world-class infrastructure. Beneath the modern veneer, however, lie timeless treasures of finely
restored colonial buildings, charming Peranakan houses, quaint shop houses and enduring landmarks that will take you back into the city's past. It may be a concrete jungle to some extent, but
with numerous national parks, nature reserves and abundant greenery all year round, Singapore is indeed a model city, striking an enviable balance between urbanization and conservation
Welcome to the Garden City of Asia! Singapore