Race and ethnicity in the United States Census From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: , navigation search , as defined by the and the Federal (OMB), are data items in which
residents choose the or races with which they most closely identify, and indicate whether or not they are of Hispanic or Latino origin (ethnicity).Race and ethnicity in the United States Census
United States Census Bureau Office of Management and Budget self-identification race [1] [2] The racial categories represent a social-political construct designed for the race or races that
respondents consider themselves to be and "generally reflect a social definition of race recognized in this country." The OMB defines the concept of race as outlined for the US Census as not
"scientific or anthropological" and takes into account "social and cultural characteristics as well as ancestry" using "appropriate scientific methodologies" but not "primarily biological or genetic
in reference." [3] [4] Race and are considered separate and distinct identities, with origin asked as a separate question. Thus, in addition to their race or races, all respondents are categorized
by membership in one of two ethnicities: Hispanic or Latino, and Not Hispanic or Latino. In 1997, OMB issued a Notice which provided revised racial and ethnic definitions. ethnicity Hispanic or
Latino Federal Register [5] Contents [] edit Race Race was asked differently in the in several ways than previously. Most significantly, respondents were given the option of selecting one or
more race categories to indicate their racial identities. Data show that nearly seven million Americans identified themselves as members of two or more races. Because of these changes, the
Census 2000 data on race are not directly comparable with data from the 1990 census or earlier censuses. Caution must be used when interpreting changes in the racial composition of the US
population over time. Census 2000 Snapshot: Race in the US Census The 7th federal census, in 1850, asked for Color and gave the choices: [6] white The 10th federal census, in 1880,
asked for Color and gave the choices: [7] white Chinese Indian The 22nd federal census, in , had a "short form" that asked one ethnic and one race/ancestry question: 2000 [8] 1. Is the
person Spanish/Hispanic/Latino? No, not Spanish/Hispanic/Latino Yes, other // (write in group) Spanish Hispanic Latino 2. What is the person's race? White American Indian or Alaska Native
(write in tribe) Asian Indian Other Pacific Islander (write in race) Other race (write in race) This census acknowledged that "race categories include both racial and national-origin groups."
The following definitions apply to the 2000 census only. [9] "White. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa. It includes people who
indicate their race as 'White' or report entries such as Irish, German, Italian, Near Eastemer, Arab, or Polish." [9] See also: and White people White American "Black or African American. A
person having origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa. It includes people who indicate their race as 'Black, African Am., or Negro, or provide written entries such as African American,
Afro American, Kenyan, Nigerian, or Haitian." [9] "American Indian and Alaska Native. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central
America) and who maintain tribal affiliation or community attachment." [9] "Asian. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian
subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. It includes Asian Indian, Chinese, 'Filipino',
'Korean', "Japanese, 'Vietnamese, and Other Asian." [9] 'Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other
Pacific Islands. It includes people who indicate their race as 'Native Hawaiian, 'Guamanian or Chamorro, Samoan, and Other Pacific Islander." [9] See also: Pacific Islander "Some other
race. Indudes all other responses not included in the 'White', 'Black or African American, American Indian and Alaska Native, 'Asian' and 'Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander race
categories described above. Respondents providing write-in entries such as multiracial, mixed, interracial, , or a Hispanic/Latino group (for example, Mexican, Puerto Rican, or Cuban) in the
'Some other race' category are included here." Wesort [9] "Two or more races. People may have chosen to provide two or more races either by checking two or more race response check
boxes, by providing multiple write-in responses, or by some combination of check boxes and write-in responses. [9] [] edit Ethnicity The has mandated that "in data collection and
presentation, federal agencies are required to use a minimum of two ethnicities: "Hispanic or Latino" and "Not Hispanic or Latino." The Census Bureau defines "Hispanic or Latino" as "a person
of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin regardless of race." For discussion of the meaning and scope of the Hispanic or Latino ethnicity,
see the and articles. Federal government of the United States [10] [10] Hispanic and Latino Americans Racial and ethnic demographics of the United States Use of the word for Hispanicity only
is considerably more restricted than its conventional meaning, which covers other distinctions, some of which are covered by the "race" and questions. The distinct questions accommodate the
possibility of Hispanic and Latino Americans also declaring various racial identities (see also , , and ).ethnicity "ancestry" White Hispanic and Latino Americans Asian Latinos Black Hispanic and
Latino Americans In the , 12.5% of the US population reported Hispanic or Latino ethnicity and 87.5% reported non-Hispanic or Latino ethnicity. 2000 Census [10] In 2001, the adopted the
new language to comply with the revisions to Directive 15, as did the of the in 2007. See . National Institutes of Health [11] Equal Employment Opportunity Commission US Department of
Labor [12] Race and ethnicity (EEO) [] edit Relation between ethnicity and race in census results The Census Bureau warns that data on race in Census 2000 are not directly comparable to
those collected in previous censuses. It has also been noted that many US residents see race and ethnicity as the same concept. [9] [4] Race