Artisan-Style Chocolate Treats & Gifts At Delicious Prices | CAPSULE REPORT: The new Starbucks line of artisan-style chocolates is delicious, at an affordable price. Theres something for
everyone, from bars to truffles to chocolate-covered coffee beans. At this time, the product line is not being sold in Starbucks coffee shops, but is available at retailers nationwidemass
retailers, grocery and drug stores. It is most likely the best chocolate you can buy there! The crisply packaged line makes a fine everyday treat as well as a nice gift. And yes, its delicious with
a cup of Starbucks coffeeall the more pity that its not sold alongside the coffee. The line is certified kosher. Shopping Information Starbucks Chocolate: Overview What do you do when
you've mastered coffee? Come up with a line that goes with it. Starbucks has launched Starbucks Chocolate, a portfolio of artisan-style chocolates inspired by their coffee and Tazo tea
productsand in some cases, containing pieces of the coffee and tea. The chocolate looks beautiful: a glossy finish and beautiful design. And it tastes great, too. The chocolate was designed in
consultation with The Artisan Confections Company, the subsidiary of The Hershey Company that owns the artisan chocolate brands , Joseph Schmidt Confections and . Dagoba Organic
Chocolate Scharffen Berger Chocolate Maker The chocolate quality is superbamong the best one can find outside a gourmet bar store, and some of the products can compete with most of
what is found within those stores. The price is right: 3-ounce bars for $2.99, boxes of tasting squares and Milk Chocolate-Covered Coffee Beans for $4.99 to $5.49 and five flavors of Chocolate
Truffles in the same price range. Let's take a look at the chocolates. Chocolate Bars The chocolate bars are not only beautiful (see the at top), theyre delicious for the price, and as good as
some artisan bars that cost more. photo . The milk chocolate bars are dark milk chocolate, at 37% cacao content. Most milk chocolate is 30% to 33% cacao, and is much sweeter (cacao, or
cocoa mass, and sugar exist in inverse proportionsthe lower the cacao percentage, the more sugar, the higher the cacao percentage, the less sugar).Milk Chocolate At 37%, the sugariness
of the chocolate is suppressed, and wonderful caramel tones appear on the nose and the palate. If you're accustomed to sweet milk chocolate, this will open your eyes to the finer things
available to you. . The 55% cacao semisweet Dark Chocolate bar is even more complex, with a raisiny nose, lots of cocoa-buttery melt on the palate and a fruity finishif you focus, you can
taste raspberry.Dark Chocolate . Starbucks Guatemala Casi Cielo beans are added to the dark chocolate couverture to provide flavor and a bit of crunch. Another delicious bar, with cocoa and
citrus notes from the coffee beans.Mocha Dark Chocolate A trio of delectable chocolate barshigh quality for the price. Tasting Squares When you just want a little taste of
chocolateperhaps with a cup of coffee or tea after a mealreach for a tasting square. They're also called tasting squares because you can get a taste before you buy the whole bar. They are
used in chocolate tastings as an easy way to give participants portions of the chocolates to be tastedmuch tidier than breaking off pieces from larger bars. But the original purpose of the
carre, or palet, as the tasting square is called in France, or napolitain, as it is called in Italy, was to provide a small taste of chocolate along with an espresso. The flavors blend divinely; you can
bring a bit of Europe to every cup of tea or coffee you serve (or personally enjoy), by offering a choice of these. Starbucks has excelled again here. Dark Chocolate, Milk Chocolate and Mocha
Tasting Squares are tiny versions of the three-ounce bars. In an assorted box, they hit the spot. At just five grams apiece, one would not be remiss to enjoy a piece of each flavor with coffee or
as a snack.Chocolate Tasting Squares. Tasting Squares are available in both milk and dark chocolate, plain and flavored. They are joined by , three flavors inspired by the Tazo line of
teas:Chocolate and Tea Tasting Squares . Chai lovers will flip for the spicy aroma of this chocolate, and it does not fail to deliver on the palate, with a long finish. The spices make the chocolate
seem sweeter than the regular Milk Chocolate, but few will complain. Enjoy it with a cup of chai tea, of course (Tazo also makes a decaffeinated chai teaa real find).Chai Milk Chocolate . One
could be content to inhale the aroma of this tiny delight, but on the palate, you'll find seductive citron (citrus and chocolate are a perfect marriage) and texture from the actual tea leaves
blended into the chocolate. Does this mean you can count this as double antioxidants? No. Eat chocolate for pleasure, not for health.Citron Dark Chocolate . Blended with Tazo Passion Tea,
the most sophisticated of the tasting squares has a hibiscus nose and tart hibiscus, as well as passionfruit, flavor on the palate. Those who like sweet-tart pairings should make a bee line for
this chocolate. Ground hibiscus blossoms add texture and an exotic experience. Hibiscus is an underutilized flavor, and, we predict, one that will become more fashionable in the seasons to
come. The finish is one glorious mouthful of red fruit flavor. Tazo Passion tea, a caffeine-free herbal, is also an exciting discovery, hot or iced. Have some with the chocolate,Passion Dark
Chocolate The tasting squares, at .17 ounces (5 grams) and a 1-1/4 inch square, also make beautiful garnishes on desserts or a guilt-free chocolate snack at any time of the day (guilt-free
assuming you eat one or two squares and not the entire box). Starbucks Chocolate Truffles We'd like these yummy candies even more if they were called bonbons or filled chocolates instead
of truffles. Thats because ", along with , is the most misused and confusing word in the language of chocolate. You always need to clarify what is being discussed, because the words have
multiple meanings. You can read longer discussions of each in our . However, the original chocolate truffles are balls of ganache, not filled chocolates with creamy centers. truffle praline
Chocolate Glossary Still, we're not going to split hairs: These chocolates with flavored soft centers are good, and for the price, really good. The centers are very thick and chewy, which makes
them long-lasting. One can take a while to consume, and is very satisfying. Initially, there are four flavors: . In the photo at right, this is the milk chocolate piece with two coffee beans
embossed on the top. Inside, there's a chocolate center with a hint of coffee. Pick it from the box by the purple wrapper. Milk Chocolate Cafe Truffles . If you want more coffee flavor, reach for
the dark oval piece. While the raised design in the top reminds us of a vanilla bean, the chocolate center is infused with espresso flavor. Pick it from the box by the dark orange wrapper. Dark
Chocolate Espresso Truffles The simplest flavor pairs a sweet vanilla center against the serious dark chocolate flavors. Its the bonbon at the front right of the photo, with the vertical stripes
Pick it from the box by the gold wrapper.Dark Chocolate Vanilla Bean Truffles. Chocolate truffles, clockwise: Milk Chocolate Chai, Dark Chocolate Espresso, Milk Chocolate Cafe and Dark
Chocolate Vanilla Bean. Our bonbon dish is a double-glass insulated cappuccino cup (handle-free) by Bodum. When we're not using our cups for cappuccino, we use them for cereal, dessert,
olives and candy. . Our personal favorite is the orange wrapper: milk chocolate with a vanilla, chai-infused center. Its different from everything else on the marketlots of orange flavor,
cardamom, ginger heat, black tea and soaring caramel notes from the milk chocolate. The finish goes on for days. We also are charmed that it is shaped like an upside-down teacup (its the
piece at the front left of the photo). Pick it from the box by the light orange wrapper. Milk Chocolate Chai Truffles Chocolate-tasting tip: Clear your palate with water and water biscuits or
matzoh. But keep the water at room temperature. Ice water lowers the temperature in your mouth, and affects how the cocoa butter in the chocolate will melt. Chocolate, coffee and lots of
crunch, Chocolate-Covered Coffee Beans These are perhaps the best chocolate-covered coffee beans we've ever had. Why? Because they use the coffee beans from Starbucks Caffe Verona
blend, and they taste much fresher than most covered coffee beans. Next, the milk chocolate coating is very good. If you're fond of chocolate-covered coffee beans, you'll be extremely fond of
these. If you've never quite liked them, give these a try. They're excellent with a cup of coffee, and fun decoration on cream, cake, cupcakes, chocolate pudding and mousse. Our only
unhappiness is that today, we cant find anyone online to ship these to us. But the products were just launched last month, and distribution will evolve. Whenever you see them, grab them. For
three to five dollars a pop, they're a treat you can enjoy, and a gift you can afford to give. STarbucks CHOCOLATE Assorted Bars, Tasting Squares, Truffles and Chocolate-Covered Coffee Beans
 Certified kosher (dairy) by OU Chocolate BarsMilk, Dark or Mocha 3.5 Ounces $2.99 Suggested Retail Price 2.64-Ounce Box, 15 Squares Box Of Milk, Dark & Mocha Box of Chai, Citron &
Passion $4.99 to $5.49Tasting Squares Suggested Retail Price