Written by Administrator Saturday, 09 August 2008 The problem with many is that they only offer software that is compatible with computers that run Windows operating systems. This
means that for anyone using a different system (like Mac or Linux), they don't get an opportunity to join in on the online gambling fun. However, Challenge Casino has solved this problem by
offering two different versions of their . online casinos online casino 25% on Your first deposit, 50% on Your second deposit, 100% on Your third depositCurrent Sign Up Bonus: NETeller,
Credit/Debit Card, Click2Pay, ECO Card, Direct Bank Transfer, EZIPay, Wire Transfer, E-Check, UseMyBank, InstaDebit, paysafecard, MoneyBookers, UkashPayment Methods: 255 games
including progressive jackpot casino games, blackjack games, video slotsNumber of Games: English, Spanish, French, Italian, GermanLanguages: $US, UK, , $CACurrencies: If you do
have a computer with a Windows operating system, you can download their casino software and install it on your computer. However, if you have a different operating system, you can still
enjoy gambling at Challenge Casino by playing through the browser based, Flash version of their casino. This also means that if you are on a different computer and you don't want to
download any new software onto it, you can log into your Challenge Casino account and play directly in your Internet browser. One of Challenge Casino's other best features is their sign-up
bonus. While almost every online casino offers a sign-up bonus, very few can match the amount that Challenge Casino offers. The Challenge Casino sign-up , and in total is! Other
promotions offered by Challenge Casino indude a three tier rewards system for referring new players and a Loyalty Program that allows you to earn extra chips just by playing in the Challenge
Casino.bonus consists of three partsworth $1000 Regardless of whether you play in the Challenge Casino through their software or the online Flash version of their casino, you will have a wide
variety of games to choose from. The types of games that are available in the Challenge Casino include slots, video poker and all kinds of table games (from Blackjack to Roulette). All of
Challenge Casino's games offer fair opportunities to win as a result of their independently reviewed Random Number Generator.