Summary As speaks to the sailors, and a calmer discuss s death. Claudius explains that he acted as he did, burying Polonius secretly and not punishing for the murder, because both the
common people and the queen love Hamlet very much. As a king and as a husband, he did not wish to upset either of them. A messenger enters with the letter from Hamlet to Claudius, which
informs the king that Hamlet will return tomorrow. Laertes is pleased that Hamlet has come back to Denmark, since it means that his revenge will not be delayed. Horatio Claudius Laertes
Polonius Hamlet Claudius agrees that Laertes deserves to be revenged upon Hamlet, and he is disposed to encourage Laertes to kill Hamlet, since Hamlets erratic behavior has made him a
threat to Claudiuss reign. The devious king begins to think of a way for Laertes to ensure his revenge without creating any appearance of foul play. He recalls that Hamlet has been jealous in
the past of Laertes prowess with a sword, which was recently praised before all the court by a Frenchman who had seen him in combat. The king speculates that if Hamlet could be tempted
into a duel with Laertes, it might provide Laertes with the chance to kill him. Laertes agrees, and they settle on a plan. Laertes will use a sharpened sword rather than the customary dull
fencing blade. Laertes also proposes to poison his sword, so that even a scratch from it will kill Hamlet. The king concocts a backup plan as well, proposing that if Hamlet succeeds in the duel,
Claudius will offer him a poisoned cup of wine to drink from in celebration. enters with tragic news. , mad with grief, has drowned in the river. Anguished to have lost his sister so soon after
his fathers death, Laertes flees the room. Claudius summons Gertrude to follow. He tells her it was nearly impossible to quiet Laertes rage, and worries that the news of Ophelias death will
reawaken it. Gertrude Ophelia Analysis The scheming Claudius encounters Laertes at approximately the same moment as he learns that Hamlet has survived and returned to Denmark,
Claudius's behavior throughout this scene, as in Act IV, scene v, shows him at his most devious and calculating. Shakespeare shows Claudiuss mind working overtime to derail Laertes anger,
which is thus far the greatest challenge his kingship has faced. In Act IV, scene v, Claudius decided that the way to appease Laertes was by appearing frank and honest. When Laertes asked
furiously where his father was, Claudius replied, Dead (IV.v.). Additionally, in a masterful stroke of characterization, Shakespeare has the nervous Gertrude, unable to see Claudius's plan,
follow this statement with a quick insistence on Claudiuss innocence: But not by him" (IV.v.).123123 In this scene, Claudius has clearly decided that he can appease Laertes wrath and
dispense with Hamlet in a single stroke: he hits upon the idea of the duel in order to use Laertes rage to ensure Hamlets death. The resulting plan brings both the theme of revenge and the
repeated use of traps in the plot to a new heightLaertes and Claudius concoct not one but three covert mechanisms by which Hamlet may be killed.  Ophelias tragic death occurs at the
worst possible moment for Claudius. As Laertes flees the room in agony, Claudius follows, not to console or even to join him in mourning but because, as he tells Gertrude, it was so difficult to
appease his anger in the first place. Claudius does not have time to worry about the victims of tragedyhe is too busy dealing with threats to his own power. The image of Ophelia drowning
amid her garlands of flowers has proved to be one of the most enduring images in the play, represented countless times by artists and poets throughout the centuries. Ophelia is associated
with flower imagery from the beginning of the play. In her first scene, Polonius presents her with a violet; after she goes mad, she sings songs about flowers; and now she drowns amid long
streams of them. The fragile beauty of the flowers resembles Ophelias own fragile beauty, as well as her nascent sexuality and her exquisite, doomed innocence.