President of the United States From Metapedia Jump to: , navigation search The (sometimes abbreviated as ) is the and of the . The president is at the head of the of the , whose role is to
enforce national law as given in the and written by . establishes the president as of the and enumerates powers specifically granted to the president, including the power to sign into law or bills,
passed by both houses of Congress, to create a of advisors, to grant or reprieves, and, with the " of the , to make , appoint federal officers, , and federal , including Justices of the . As with
officials in the other branches of the United States government, the Constitution restrains the president with a set of checks and balances designed to prevent any individual or group from
taking absolute power.President of the United States of AmericaPOTUS head of state head of government United States executive branch federal government Constitution Congress Article Two
of the Constitution commander-in-chief armed forces veto Cabinet pardons advice and consent Senate treaties ambassadors judges Supreme Court The president is elected indirectly through
the to a four year term, with a limit of two terms imposed by the , ratified in 1951. Under this system, each state is allocated a number of electoral votes, equal to the size of the state's
delegation in both houses of Congress combined. The is also granted electoral votes, per the . Voters in nearly all states choose a presidential candidate through the plurality voting system,
whom then receives all of that state's electoral votes. A simple majority of electoral votes is needed to become president; if no candidate receives that many votes, the election is thrown to the
, which votes by . United States Electoral College Twenty-second Amendment to the Constitution District of Columbia Twenty-third Amendment to the Constitution House of Representatives
state delegation While in office, the in serves as the place of residence for the president; he is entitled to use its staff and facilities, including medical care, recreation, housekeeping, and
security services. One of two Boeing VC-25 aircraft, which are extensively modified versions of Boeing 747-2008 airliners, serve as long distance travel for the president, and are referred to as
while the president is on board. A salary of $400,000, along with other benefits, is paid to the president annually. White House Washington, D.C. Air Force One Since the adoption of the
Constitution, forty-two individuals have been elected or succeeded into the presidency, the first being , serving forty-three different presidencies altogether (since was the twenty-second and
twenty-fourth president(s) of the U.S.A.). The current president is , inaugurated on January 20, 2001 to a first term and on January 20, 2005 to a second. His term expires at noon on January
20, 2009, after which he will be replaced by the winner of the . From the middle of the twentieth century, the United States status as a has led the American president to become one of the
world's most well-known and influential public figures. U.S. presidential elections are regarded by many as events of international as well as national significance and are closely followed in
many places around the world. George Washington Grover Cleveland George W. Bush 2008 presidential election superpower Part of this article consists of modified text from , and the article is
therefore licensed under . Wikipedia GFDL