Search by Product # or Product Name Quick Order (Enter Item#) Here at ProSource, we realize the value of proper diet, training and supplementation. Making the right decisions are
crucial to your efforts, thus our research and development team is available to enlighten you and dispel any confusion you may have in this ever-changing world of knowledge. Our team
consists of handpicked experts who have spent years in the fitness industry studying the effects of supplementation with diet and exercise. They are continually gathering the latest information,
based on independent lab testing, field-testing, customer surveys, manufacturing procedures, technical and scientific reviews and clinical studies. While the ProSource Staff answers many
questions, we've also asked leading researcher, strength coach, and dietician along with members of the ProSource Research and Development Team to answer some of your questions. with
any questions you might have on diet, exercise or supplementation and watch for your answer on our web site. Articles by ProSource Expert Q&A E-mail us PLEASE CLICK ON A QUESTION TO
VIEW THE ANSWER. I have been taking a statin because of high cholesterol levels. Should I be taking other supplements too? Statins are one of the most widely prescribed drugs on the
planet. Approximately 20 million people are estimated to be taking this potent cholesterol lowering drug and usage continues to grow. Statin treatment consistently and significantly lowers LDL
concentration, however its effects on improving other lipid markers like the good HDL cholesterol and triglycerides are less reliable. Therefore, other supplements may complement statin
therapy. If you have high triglycerides, a logical supplement to consider is fish oil which has a potent effect on lowering this lipid marker. In fact no drug is as potent as fish oil which on average
lowers triglycerides by about 30%. Another supplement is vitamin B3 or more commonly called niacin. Niacin significantly lowers blood levels of triglycerides and increases HDL cholesterol and
has been suggested to be an effective complement to statin therapy. It also dilates blood vessels and can be associated with reddening of the skin. The best tolerated form of niacin is inositol
hexaniacinate, and effective doses can be achieved in the 50 to 200 mg/day range. Finally, another supplement to consider is CoQ10. CoQ10 levels have been shown to be depleted in patients
with a variety of heart conditions and in patients during therapy with statins. Doses usually range from 30 to 100 mg/day. -- answer by: Jeff Volek. Back to Top What is the best way to take
green tea to get the most benefit? A greater interest and awareness in the potential of to promote health and prevent disease is underscored by the increased amount of research money
dedicated to understanding the biological effects of the bioactive components of green tea. Collectively these studies show green tea to be associated with a wide range of biological effects that
improve health. The bioactive polyphenolic compounds in green tea account for a third of the dry weight of the leaves. The predominant polyphenol are the catechins and include epicatechin,
epicatechin-3-gallate, epigallocatechin, and epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG). Most research has focused on EGCG as the predominant active ingredient. In terms of , there has been some
research that addressed this question. For example, if you drink green tea, there can be a great deal of variability in the content of bioactive compounds including EGCG depending on how the
tea leaves were processed prior to drying, the geographic location and growing conditions, the tea type (decaffeinated, instant, etc.), and preparation method (amount used, brew time,
temperature). Because of these nknowns! think supplements that contain standardized extracts of EGCG are a good option. The effective doses are not known for sure but the studies showing
beneficial effects in humans used 270 mg EGCG divided into 3 equal doses of 90 mg at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. In fact, one recent study actually showed that supplements were better
than tea. The study compared the effects of , , and a in pill form that all contained the same amount of the flavanol EGCG. Despite containing the same amount of EGCG, the absorption of total
plasma flavanols into the blood after ingestion of the green tea extract supplement was far superior to the liquid teas. The green tea extract also led to higher antioxidant activity in the blood
Another recent study also found that ingesting supplements containing green tea catechins in the fasted state without food led to greater bioavailability compared to ingesting them with food.

~ answer by: Jeff Volek.I interested in using green tea to lose weight and promote metabolic health. What is the best way to take green tea to get the most benefit? green tea the best way to
take green teagreen teablack teagreen tea extract Back to Top What does the latest research show for the supplement called carnitine? The textbook function of is to help transport fat into
the furnace of the cell for burning. Therefore the primary reason to supplement with camitine has been as a, and some but not all studies support this function of supplemental carnitine.
Several lines of evidence however point to additional beneficial effects that help speed recovery from exercise. For example carnitine injected into the bloodstream reduced the amount of
oxidative stress and increased blood flow. Carnitine was shown in one animal study to increase blood flow and force production. Studies have shown that camitine has antioxidant effects that
decrease production of bad superoxide anions and increase generation of potent substances that increase dilation of blood vessels such as nitric oxide and prostacyclin. In healthy men, we
reported that camitine supplementation (2 g/day for 3 wks) resulted in significantly less accumulation of stress markers in response to resistance exercise including free radical formation,
tissue damage, and muscle soreness. We recently performed a study to validate our prior work and determine if ingesting a smaller dose of camitine could also provide a beneficial effect.
Healthy men performed a resistance exercise challenge that included 5 sets of squat exercise on 3 separate occasions. For 3 weeks prior to each test, subjects ingested either 1 g of carnitine
Ltartrate (CLT) per day, 2 g LCLT/day, or a placebo. Similar to our previous work, in this new study we showed that carnitine supplementation was effective at reducing the acute response of
several markers of biochemical stress after resistance exercise including hypoxanthine, xanthine oxidase, and myglobin. In addition, perception of muscle soreness was lower after exercise with
camitine supplementation. A novel finding was that 1 g/day of carnitine was as effective as 2 g/day. The findings indicate that in additional to the traditional role of camitine as a fat burner, this
dietary supplement also helps during recovery from intense exercise. Collectively, these studies point to new roles of camitine in mitigating the biochemical stress response to exercise and at a
lower dose than previously thought. -- answer by: Jeff Volek.I have heard some exciting new developments about camitine, can you tell us what the latest research shows for this supplement?
@ Back to Top What is your opinion of vitamin  supplements? is an essential nutrient we must get in our diets, and unlike other vitamins that serve as cofactors, vitamin E has the primary
function of a . That means it quenches harmful free radicals that cause damage to membranes and other structures important for normal cell function. Is this important for athletes you bet!
Intense exercise is a physiologic stress that involves both a mechanical and biochemical response in muscle, tendon, and ligaments. The mechanical stress involves physical disruption or
damage to cell membranes and normal cell structures adversely affecting cell function. There is also an associated biochemical stress response that involves generation of free radicals
(oxidative stress) that triggers an inflammatory cascade. To facilitate optimal tissue repair and enhance recovery from intense exercise, a key concept is to protect cell membranes and mitigate
the oxidative stress and inflammatory response to exercise. There are several forms of vitamin  and not all are created equal. Alpha tocopherol is the vitamin E form routinely used in clinical
intervention trials and because of its well-established antioxidant effects. In fact almost all use this form with a few exceptions. Gamma tocopherol, on the other hand, is a potent but
uncommon supplemental form of vitamin  with unique properties beneficial for recovery from exercise. In addition to antioxidant activity, gamma tocopherol also has reactive nitrogen
scavenging ability and anti-inflammatory effects and therefore represents a more therapeutically effective form of vitamin E. Suggested dosage would be 100-300 mg/day gamma tocopherol. ~~
answer by: Jeff Volek. Vitamin E chain-breaking antioxidant dietary supplements vitamin E supplements Back to Top Why do I need to worry about slow, medium or fast-acting proteins? Even
if you have ingested a fair dose of protein before exercise, you will stay in the protein catabolic state after rigourous exercise until you have taken in enough amino acids. You obviously want to
switch from the catabolic state to the anabolic state as soon as possible, right? To do so, you need to rapidly elevate blood amino acid and insulin levels (Insulin is an anabolic hormone that
helps transport amino acids into hungry muscle cells). The best way to accomplish this goal is to ingest a serving of immediately after exercise. This high-tech post-exercise supplement
provides an elite form of protein that can be absorbed almost instantly upon ingestion, without going through the normal digestive processes. Consequently, a massive surge of anabolic
nutrients are rapidly transported to muscle tissue, where they help trigger new muscle synthesis at a greatly accelerated rate. In addition to the highest quality whey protein hydrolysate, also
contains a large dose of added leucine. This branched-chain amino acid is the key regulator of muscle protein anabolism. Finally, MyoZene provides a host of other beneficial ingredients such as
glutamine, antioxidants, KIC, etc. Use of a specialized post-workout supplement such as this is proving to be the edge many bodybuilders need to achieve dramatic muscle gains. -- answer by:
Anssi Manninen, M.H.S.I read your catalogs all the time. Lately, I'm seeing that you guys are really emphasizing ultra-fast-acting proteins like these new hydrolyzed whey products. So here's
my question: If I'm consuming protein all day, both from food sources and from protein shakes, don't I always have aminos cruising my bloodstream? If I'm perpetually maxed on bioavailable
aminos, why do I need to worry about slow-, medium- or fast-acting proteins? Thanks and keep up the good work! MyoZene Anssi Manninen, M.H.S., Ph.D., is a well-published research
scientist in the sports nutrition field. He holds an M.H.S. in sports medicine from the University of Kuopio Medical School. Anssi is currently a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Physiology at
the University of Oulu Medical School, studying effects of post-exercise nutritional supplementation on hormonal responses and blood amino acid levels. Anssi is also an Associate Editor for
Nutrition & Metabolism, a leading scientific journal in the area of nutritional biochemistry NOTE: Page 16 of the ProSource Product Guide Vol.7 states that Anssi Manninen has earned his Ph.D.
This is a typo. Anssi Manninen is in the process of attaining his Ph.D. Back to Top What is so special about BCAAs Researchers have known about leucine for decades, but exciting new
research has shed a new and broader light on this important health-promoting amino acid. is one of the essential amino acids, which simply means our bodies cannot make leucine and must
get it from dietary sources. Leucine is also the most abundant of the three branched-chain amino acids (BCAA), the other two being isoleucine and valine. make up a high proportion of the
amino acids in muscle. BCAA are also unique because they are the only amino acids that are bumed by muscle as fuel and thus both blood and muscle levels decrease after exercise. Leucine in
particular is the only amino acid that increases in direct proportion to dietary intake. Historically, amino acids were simply viewed as substrates for making muscle and other body proteins - sort
of like the bricks needed to build a house. In the case of leucine, recent investigations have shown multiple roles of this amino acid that go well beyond simply providing material to build
muscle. Whether you are interested in building muscle or preventing muscle loss that normally occurs during aging and weight loss, stimulating protein synthesis is absolutely key. It is probably
not news that simply consuming protein induces an increase in muscle protein synthesis, which is why protein supplements are popular to consume after exercise. Researchers have begun to
refine their knowledge on what it is about protein that stimulates anabolism in muscle. For example, scientists have shown that it is the level of in the blood that directly boosts protein
synthesis in muscles. Specifically it is the amino acid leucine that is most highly related to protein synthesis. In a series of elegant experiments, researchers directly examined muscle protein
synthesis after feeding animals various formulations of amino acids and compared them to glucose ingestion. When a complete protein was consumed (one that contains all the amino acids),
protein synthesis was increased. When just essential amino acids were provided and the nonessential ones left out, the same increase was noted indicating nonessential amino acids are not
required to stimulate protein synthesis. When just the BCAA were given, again there was the same increase in protein synthesis. Finally when just leucine was consumed, yet again protein
synthesis increased to the same magnitude. These findings provided strong evidence that leucine was the driving force behind the ability of dietary protein to stimulate protein synthesis. A
series of cellular studies has now clearly shown that leucine directly activates a critical compound in muscle called the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). It turns out mTOR is like
molecular switch that turns on the protein synthetic machinery in muscle and leucine is one of the major activators of mTOR. Thus, leucine not only provides the building blocks for protein
synthesis, it also has a critical role in up-regulating the process. For example, even when an overabundance of amino acids are available to provide the building materials for new muscle,
adding extra leucine augments protein synthetic rates further. The application of all this work is that adding additional leucine to typical protein beverages is an effective strategy to maximize
muscle anabolism after resistance exercise. A large number of studies have shown that high protein diets help spare muscle loss during weight loss. Researchers at the University of Illinois
have conducted studies that examined weight loss diets that contained 10 g/day of leucine and 125 g total protein per day with a minimum of 2.5 g leucine at each meal. In two separate
studies, this group demonstrated that the high leucine diets resulted in greater weight loss, greater fat loss, and better preservation of lean body mass. In these studies, the high leucine diets
also resulted in better glucose control. Finally, a recent animal study showed that doubling leucine intake prevented diet-induced obesity and improved a host of metabolic disturbances. The
ideal amount of leucine to take is a matter of debate among nutritionists and scientists. In acute studies, oral intake of as little as 2.5 g of leucine stimulates protein synthesis. For chronic
studies, leucine intakes equivalent to 8 or more grams per day are recommended divided so that at least 2.5 g of leucine are consumed at each meal. The best food sources of leucine indude
any proteins from animals that naturally contain all the essential amino acids. The protein source with the highest leucine content is whey which contains about 10 g per 100 g of protein. Other
protein supplements like casein and soy contain less leucine. Leucine can be purchased as a single amino acid and added to other protein sources like whey or casein. One cautionary note:
supplementing with just leucine alone will not result in optimal effects if the background diet is low in protein. This is because the other BCAA (isoleucine and valine) will be preferentially
oxidized and lead to a BCAA imbalance that compromises anabolism. Thus it is important to consume sufficient protein or at least supplement with all three BCAA if total protein intake is
low.The guys in the gym tell me I should be supplementing with BCAA, especially leucine. What is so special about this supplement?