Following the 1994 elections, was governed under an interim constitution. This constitution required the (CA) to draft and approve a permanent constitution by , . The present was certified by
the Constitutional Court on , was signed by then President on , and entered into effect on ; it is being implemented in phases. The (GNU) established under the interim constitution ostensibly
remained in effect until the 1999 national elections. The parties originally comprising the GNU  the (ANC), the (NP), and the (IFP)  shared executive power. On , , the NP withdrew from the
GNU to become part of the opposition. Under the Constitution, the President is both and . President was unamimously elected by the on . is Executive Deputy President. Ministers are appointed
by the President. The bicameral consists of the National Assembly (400 seats; members are elected by popular vote under a system of to serve five-year terms) and the National Council of
Provinces (90 seats, 10 members elected by each of the nine provincial legislatures for five-year terms). Half of the members of the National Assembly are chosen from nationwide party lists,
the other from party lists for each province. is under consideration, with smaller multi-member constitutencies being introduced. Following the implementation of the new constitution on the
replaced the former with essentially no change in membership and party affiliations, although the new institution's responsibilities have been changed; with the body now having special powers
to protect regional interests, including the safeguarding of cultural and linguistic traditions among ethnic minorities. General elections are held every 5 years. The , , and the . The (COSATU)
and the (SACP) are in a formal alliance with the ruling ANC. The third arm of the central government is an independent judiciary. The Constitutional Court is the highest court for interpreting
and deciding constitutional issues while the Supreme Court of Appeal is the highest court for nonconstitutional matters. Most cases are heard in the extensive system of High Courts and
Magistrates Courts. The constitution's bill of rights provides for due process including the right to a fair, public trial within a reasonable time of being charged and the right to appeal to a higher
court. The bill of rights also guarantees fundamental political and social rights of South Africa's citizens. The legal system based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law; accepts
compulsory IC) jurisdiction, with reservations. The post- Government of South Africa have made remarkable progress in consolidating the nation's peaceful transition to democracy. Programs to
improve the delivery of essential social services to the majority of the population are underway. Access to better opportunities in education and business is becoming more widespread.
Nevertheless, transforming South Africa's society to remove the legacy of apartheid will be a long-term process requiring the sustained commitment of the leaders and people of the nation's
disparate groups. The (TRC), chaired by Prizewinner , helped to advance the reconciliation process. Constituted in and having completed its work by , the TRC was empowered to investigate
apartheid-era human rights abuses committed between and , to grant amnesty to those who committed politically motivated crimes and to recommend compensation to victims of abuses. The
TRC's mandate was part of the larger process of reconciling the often conflicting political, economic, and cultural interests held by the many peoples that make up South Africa's diverse
population. The ability of the government and people to agree on many basic questions of how to order the country's new society will remain a critical challenge. One important issue continues
to be the relationship of provincial and local administrative structures to the national government. Prior to , South Africa was divided into four provinces and 10 black "," four of which were
considered independent by the South African Government. Both the interim constitution and the new 1997 abolished this system and substituted nine . Each province has an elected legislature
and chief executive --the provincial premier. Although in form a federal system, in practice the nature of the relationship between the central and provincial governments continues to be the
subject of considerable debate, particularly among groups desiring a greater measure of autonomy from the central government. A key step in defining the relationship came in 1997 when
provincial governments were given more than half of central government funding and permitted to develop and manage their own budgets. Although South Africa's economy is in many areas
highly developed, the exclusionary nature of apartheid and distortions caused in part by the country's international isolation until the 1990s have left major weaknesses. The economy is now in
a process of transition as the government seeks to address the inequities of apartheid, stimulate growth, and create jobs. Business, meanwhile, is becoming more integrated into the
international system, and foreign investment has increased dramatically over the past several years. Still, the economic disparities between population groups are expected to persist for many
years, remaining an area of priority attention for the government. The new constitution's bill of rights provides extensive guarantees, including equality before the law and prohibitions against
discrimination; the right to life, privacy, property, and freedom and security of the person; prohibition against slavery and forced labor; and freedom of speech, religion, assembly, and
association. The legal rights of criminal suspects also are enumerated. The constitution provides for an independent and impartial judiciary, and, in practice, these provisions are respected.
Citizens' entitlements to a safe environment, housing, education, and health care are included in the bill of rights, and are known as secondary constitutional rights. In the constitutional
secondary rights were used by the / activist group the as a means of forcing the government to change its health policy. Since the abolition of apartheid, levels of political violence in South
Africa have dropped dramatically. Violent crime and organized criminal activity are at high levels and are a grave concem. Partly as a result, vigilante action and mob justice sometimes occur.
Some members of the police commit abuses, and deaths in police custody as a result of excessive force remain a problem. The government has taken action to investigate and punish some of
those who commit such abuses. In April 1997, the government established an Independent Complaints Directorate to investigate deaths in police custody and deaths resulting from police
action. Although South Africa's society is undergoing a rapid transformation, some discrimination against women continues, and discrimination against those living with HIV/AIDS is becoming
serious. Violence against women and children also is a serious problem. Politics Of South Africa Constitution