Rocky spikes column asking if Feds might intervene to prevent shutdown By 1/6/09 5:12 PM Ernest Luning Rocky Mountain News wrote in a column for the newspaper last week that putting
the Rocky on the market for one month over the holidays looks like itCls not a good-faith effort to find a buyer for the newspaper. But the observation , Salzman says in a blog post Tuesday.
Its the first time in more than four years the Rocky has refused one of his biweekly On the Media columns, Salzman writes. "My editors at the Rocky have been fair during my years of
freelance service. I respect them, and Temple did not fire me, the media critic writes. Salzman adds that he posted the rejected column because he feels its important to raise questions about
possible federal intervention to keep Rocky owner E.W. Scripps Co. from . contributor Jason Salzman didnt appear in the Rocky because editor and publisher John Temple rejected the column
shutting down the 149-year-old newspaper When Scripps announced on Dec. 4 that the Rocky was on the chopping block and faced an anticipated $15 million operating loss that year, the
company said if a buyer isnt found by mid January. The newspaper has operated under a federally sanctioned Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) with Media News Group, owner of rival paper
The Denver Post, since 2001. it will consider shutting down the newspaper The JOA, Salzman points out, includes oversight from the Justice Department(s anti-trust division, which can
intervene to make sure that 2 JOA newspaper, like the Rocky, is not closed prematurely or unnecessarily. That could include federal efforts to ensure a newspaper's owners make a real effort
to find a buyer, before it simply shutters the newspaper. Salzman tums to University of California at Berkeley law professor Stephen Barnett, an expert on JOAs, including past agreements
when the Feds stepped in to encourage a sale when the owners preferred to close a newspaper. The (Justice) Department has even taken steps to make sure that buyers arenCt discouraged,
(Bamett) said. This view about the apparent obligation of Scripps to seek a buyer has not been reported, and it should be. It could answer the nagging question of why Scripps is putting the
Rocky on the market for a time period thatCls so short as to make a sale nearly impossible. Barnett suggests that the schedule surrounding the sale might be everything  as the newspapers
corporate owners could take advantage of a sympathetic Bush administrations final days rather than have to deal with a new administration, which might see things differently. ... If Scripps
makes the decision in mid-January to close the Rocky, the Justice Department could intervene and insist the Rocky remain for sale longer. I think the Justice Department might, especially in a
new Administration, require [the Rocky] to remain operating for a few months or something to see if a new buyer could be found, said Barnett. If a buyer were found, the widely reported JOA
provision giving Post owner Dean Singleton both the first right of refusal and the right to reject the buyer may be illegal, said Barnett. In a view thatCs not been reported locally, he believes a
right of refusal in the JOA canCit trump a capable buyer. As the Scripps deadline creeps closer, , one of Colorado's oldest businesses, soldier on. But in the pages of the Rocky itself, "readers
deserve to know what can be done if a premature decision to close the paper is made, Salzman argued in the column the Rocky wouldnt run. efforts to save the Rocky