human migrations mitochondrial population genetics millennia This subsection focuses on forms of wildlife destruction. anthropogenic of wild populations has been a characteristic of modern
man since our exodus from 130,000 70,000 years ago. The rate of of entire species of plants and animals across the planet has been so high in the last few hundred years it is widely
considered that we are in the sixth great extinction event on this planet; the . Exploitation Africa extinctions Holocene Mass Extinction Destruction of wildlife does not always lead to an
extinction of the species in question, however, the dramatic loss of entire species across Earth dominates any review of wildlife destruction as extinction is the level of damage to a wild
population from which there is no return. The four most general reasons that lead to destruction of wildlife include overkill, habitat destruction and fragmentation, impact of introduced species
and chains of extinction. [1] Overkill Overkill occurs whenever hunting occurs at rates greater than the reproductive capacity of the population is being exploited. The effects of this are often
noticed much more dramatically in slow growing populations such as many larger species of fish. Initially when a portion of a wild population is hunted, an increased availability of resources,
(food, etc) is experienced increasing growth and reproduction as is lowered. Hunting, and so on, has lowered the competition between members of a population. However, if this hunting
continues at rate greater than the rate at which new members of the population can reach breeding age and produce more young, the population will begin to . Density dependent inhibition
fishing decrease in numbers Populations are confined to islands whether literal islands or just areas of habitat that are effectively an island for the species concemed have also been observed
to be at greater risk of dramatic population dediines following . unsustainable hunting [] edit Habitat destruction and fragmentation The of any given species is considered its preferred area or
territory. Many processes associated human habitation of an area cause loss of this area and the decrease the carrying capacity of the land for that species. In many cases these changes in
land use cause a patchy break-up of the wild landscape. Agricultural land frequently displays this type of extremely fragmented, or relictual, habitat. Farms sprawl across the landscape with
patches of uncleared woodland or forest dotted in-between occasional paddocks. habitat Examples of habitat destruction include grazing of bushland by farmed animals, changes to natural fire
regimes, forest clearing for timber production and wetland draining for city expansion. [] edit Impact of introduced species Mice, cats, , and are all examples of species that have become
invasive threats to wild species in various parts of the world. Frequently species that are uncommon in their home range become out-of-control invasions in distant but similar climates. The
reasons for this have not always been clear and felt it was unlikely that exotic species would ever be able to grow abundantly in a place in which they had not evolved. The reality is that the
vast majority of species exposed to a new habitat do not reproduce successfully. Occasionally, however, some populations do take hold and after a period of acclimation can increase in numbers
significantly, having destructive effects on many elements of the native environment of which they have become part. rabbits dandelions poison ivy Charles Darwin [] edit Chains of extinction
 This final group is one of secondary effects. All wild populations of living things have many complex intertwining links with other living things around them. Large herbivorous animals such as
the have populations of birds that feed off the many parasitic insects that grow on the hippo. Should the hippo die out so to will these groups of birds, leading to further destruction as other
species dependent on the birds are affected. Also referred to as a , this series of is by far the most destructive process that can occur in any . hippopotamus insectivorous Domino effect chain
reactions ecological community