Get Amazing NFL Coverage With NFL Sunday Ticket from DirecTV (9/4/2008) DIRECTV is the nation's #1 digital satellite entertainment service provider. Using the most advanced satellite
technology, they deliver programming from more than 265 channels to homes and businesses with DIRECTV receiving equipment. The DIRECTV service offers an incredible selection of
entertainment for every member of the family - all in the digital-quality picture and sound that DIRECTV is known for. With DIRECTV, you get programming, value AND service! now offers more
than 130 national channels in brilliant high definition, and the let you select up to 265+ channels featuring the best , family programming, , music, pay per view movies and events, local
channels and more. And, unlike cable, you get all-digital picture and sound, so every channel comes in crystal-clear. DIRECTV has created a programming service specifically driven to offer
customers more choice and value for their entertainment dollar. The DIRECTV service combines America's favorite network channels, other popular networks not available from many cable
services, a pay per view service with up to 55 daily choices of movies and special events , local channels in many markets, and an unprecedented sports subscription lineup. No other system
offers as many quality program options. DIRECTV Offers More Choices and Better Service DIRECTV HD DIRECTV Programming Packages premium movie channels sports SAVINGS include an
$18/mo national offer rebate for 12 months for CHOICE and above, a $5/mo for 12 months auto pay/email bonus rebate for CHOICE and above, up to a $199 rebate on advanced equipment
(DVR Service and/or HD Access fee required) for CHOICE XTRA and above, and a $35/mo bill credit for 3 months for HBO, Starz, and SHOWTIME for PREMIER. Free advanced equipment with
activation of CHOICE XTRA package or higher. Programming, DVR service and/or HD Access fee commitments required. Eligibility of local channels based on service address. Not all networks
available in all markets. Offer ends 3/03/09. Offers are based on approved credit. Credit card required (MA & PA excluded). New customers only (lease required). Lease fee $4.99/mo. for
second and each additional receiver. Promo Code: 86011834Call Now!1-866-579-2419