about andStorm ChasingTornadoes Last Update:05 March 2001 ... added Item #38 and made a number of small changes, including adding some new links here and there. Disclaimer": The
contents of this FAQ list are solely the opinions of Chuck Doswell, and have no official status associated with my workplace. They have been provided here in response to numerous questions of
late, perhaps spawned by the movie "TwisterMention of commercial products and Websites does not constitute an endorsement, andespeciallynot an endorsement by the Federal Government.
1. How do I become a storm chaser? Becoming a storm chaser can be as simple as choosing to do so. However, just going out and chasing storms can become hazardous to you in a
variety of ways (see my essay on ). If you go out without taking advantage of what has been learned about storm chasing, you are already behaving irresponsibly! My recommendation is to do
storm chasing! If you try it, go out with an experienced storm chaser for at least one chase season, preferably more, before trying it on your own. chasing not must Another option is to obtain
training by volunteering to be a for your local community. This option involves making a serious commitment to be of service to your community, not simply taking advantage of the training for
your own selfish ends. However, you can enhance your value as a storm spotter by chasing and learning about severe weather in doing so. Keith Brewster has provided a useful about how to
become a spotter. Being a spotter is the same thing as being a chaser, although many folks do both. More on this later.storm spotter document not 2. Do I need to be a meteorologist to be a
storm chaser? Not at all. There are many veteran storm chasers who have virtually no meteorological education. However, the good ones have learned a great deal about the atmosphere on
their own and have become "meteorologists without a degree" as they have acquired knowledge about severe storms. If you are going to be a successful chaser, you're going to have to learn
about how to be in the right place at the right time, and you can't depend on anyone else to get you there. It's in your best interests to learn as much about meteorology as you can! 3. How
do I avoid the dangers of storm chasing? This question is a complex one and I recommend you read my essay on for a detailed answer. The dangers of chasing, in my opinion, are (in order of
importance): chasing 1. Driving on the highways 2. Being struck by lightning 3. Getting into the path of dangerous storms 4. How realistic was the movie "Twister"? The movie was quite an
presentation of real storm chasing. Even good real storm chasers can spend ten or more days without seeing a tornado for every day of seeing a tornado! They pass many long hours driving,
eating bad food, and staying in bad motels for every minute of tomado action. It is very easy for even the best of us to make incorrect chase decisions and miss the action. Most of storm.
chasing, by far, is frustration and failure, punctuated by occasional dramatic experiences. If you want life-threatening danger to flood your body with adrenaline, try jumping out of airplanes,
not storm chasing! The dangers are there, but you will not experience them very often (apart from any hazards of driving).unrealistic Real storm chasing is like the "tornado chasing" the movie
shows. It's very difficult even to get within 5 miles of a tomado, much less have 4 tornadoes roll over you within one 24 hour period. And having real tornadoes roll over you isn't going to result
in you emerging more or less without a scratch (to say nothing of the likelihood of being brought out in a body bag!). Real chasers don't stop in the middle of a chase for steak & eggs, and a
shower, and then go out and find another tornado. A lot of the chaser jargon used in the movie (like , or ) was made up for the movie; chasers don't currently use such terms. The few
examples of storm shots, like the one at the beginning of the movie, where Bill Harding (Bill Paxton's character) remarks that the "...sky is talking..." are handled unrealistically. I recognized
that sequence immediately as being from 05 June 1995 (see my ) near Jayton, TX. Any chaser seeing that mesocyclone for the first time would be going ballistic, not making an offhand
comment and and then going back to whatever he/she was doing.notsuck zone, sidewinder, shifting updraftsistersreal 1995 chase summary There also are many, many technical errors in the
special effects, even though they certainly are dramatic and better than most previous attempts to include tornadoes in movies. For example, 1. The tornadoes seem to be dominated
byoutflowat low levels, even though real tornadoes have stronginflownear the surface ... with the "F5" at the end of the movie, note the windmill near the farm implement lot swinging tofacethe
tornado, as if it is experiencing outflow. 2. The tomadoes are shown hanging from clouds that don't look anything like storm clouds. 3. When vehicles become airbome in tornadoes, they
usually are rolled and flattened before becoming airborne, so that pristine combines and tanker trucks typically don't fall intact out of the sky. 4. The scene with hail was clearlynothail, but
crushed ice ... even the ordinary citizens in the theater where I saw the movie first were laughing about that one ... Okies recognize hail when theydon'tsee it! I could go on, but it's not really
necessary. In summary, no one should ever believe that what they have seen in the movie is, in fact, realistic. The realism in the movie is pretty thin! 5. How many tornadoes has Chuck
Doswell seen? Please don't ask me this question. I'm not interested in indulging in silly games about the number of "notches" in my gun. I've seen tornadoes simply because I've been chasing
since 1972. I'm not the world's best storm chaser, nor do I have any desire to be known as such.many 6. What was Chuck Doswell's scariest storm chase? I don't like this question, either. The
only time storm chasing really frightened me was in June of 1973, when we hydroplaned on wet roads while driving between storms. [That experience has made us very cautious and it has not
happened again.] I do chase for the danger and the heart-pounding fear. If I feel any real concer about what the storm I am chasing might do to me, I simply do not stay in a place where I
feel I might be in danger. My excitement from chasing comes from having a chance to see a complex and rare demonstration of Nature's power ... it's probably more like the "buck fever" that
hunters experience when they find their elusive quarry than what bungee-cord jumpers must feel. [I neither hunt nor do bungee-cord jumping, so I can only speculate on the feelings of those
who do!Jnot 7. Why chase storms? Another question I dislike. People have their own reasons for chasing, and it really is not anyone else's business why do so. I've had a lifelong fascination
with tornadoes. My as a meteorologist springs directly from that fascination; I didn't believe I could learn about tornadoes without seeing them, and I still hold to that philosophy. There are
many places to get some insights about chasing: see the by Roger Edwards and Tim Vasquez, an on the subject by Dave Hoadley, and some of the articles in the of magazine.I career Chasing
FAQ essay 20th Anniversary Issue Storm Track 8. Can I go chasing with Chuck Doswell? Sorry. I do not enjoy "tag-along chasers, either in our vehicle or following along behind us. Although I
have recommended you chase with someone experienced for awhile, I am available for this purpose, so. My chase season is limited to an approximately 3-week "window" each year and
constitutes my vacation. During my chase vacation, I am not chasing in any official capacity; I am on annual leave, and I would prefer not to have someone tagging along on my vacation.
Would you like me to accompany you on holiday? We have limited space in our vehide and while I can't prevent you from following us in your own vehicle, I'll not like it very much! Besides, I
get numerous such requests every year. If I respond positively to one, why not to all? Then, it would take a bus to carry my "chase crew" ... the obvious solution is to respond to such requests,
the same way. If you want a chase partner, see the next item.notdon't askyourall 9. How do I get in touch with someone to be my chase partner? My only suggestion is to visit the and
"advertise" your interest in finding a chase partner. At the moment, experienced storm chasers are vastly outnumbered by the chaser "wannabes" so it may be difficult to find a chase tutor.
There also are storm chase "tours" linked from the Storm Chase Homepage, where you can buy a "packaged" storm chase vacation, with an experienced storm chasing "guide". Try: , , or... . I
simply am providing these links as a service ... specifically, I disavow any responsibility for what you may experience resulting from your participation on a storm chasing tour. Storm Chase
Homepage Silver Lining Tours Tempest Tours Cloud 9 Tours the presence of these links at this site does not constitute a commercial endorsement of these tours on my part 10. What gear
should I bring along on a storm chase? Another unfavorite question. It's not my responsibility to be the storm chase equivalent of an "outfitter" and what you choose to bring along on a chase
ought to be your own business. I don't know your reasons for chasing and that surely has a big impact on what you choose to bring along. Surely you can make your own choices for personal
gear. Experience is a great teacher and if you find you brought along stuff you didn't use and/or needed things you didn't have, then you'll know better the next time. That's the process I've
used. 11. Where can I get more information about storms (and/or meteorology)? Try the Storm Chaser Homepage or . You can also use any of the Internet to pursue specific topics. However,
I suggest you go to your local libraries and read everything you can find on the subject. If you live near a college or university, check them out, especially if they offer courses in meteorology.
Even if they do not have a meteorology department as such, they usually have a geography department that will have access to meteorological information. Visit your of the ; they have
pamphlets and information about storms to distribute to the public. Contact office and ask them to send you information. Subscribe to magazine WeatherNet search engines if you truly are
interested in serious learning about meteorology, the Internet is not the place for such a pursuit local office National Weather Service NOAA's Public Affairs Storm Track 12. Where can I get
tornado and other storm photographs or video? Try contacting: , , , or . The also has images for sale. I own the copyright to most of the images in my Website and I pursue copyright
infringement litigation for unauthorized use. Storm Track Merchandise Warren Faidley Prairie Pictures The Tornado Project NSSL Employees Association will 13. If I chase storms, what are my
responsibilities regarding reporting what I see? I've discussed some of this in my essay on chasing. If someone sees a tornado that might strike a community without waming, I believe
anyone's conscience would require them to do their best to report the tornado. If you have knowledge that the situation is in hand (warning sirens are going, or you hear warnings on the
radio), then you may choose to go about your own chase business. Let your conscience be your guide. Arguably, the best way to report a tornado is to become a licensed amateur radio
operator and contact the local spotting networks to report what you are seeing. Be aware that some of these networks are tightly controlled and may not want reports from unauthorized
persons. Given the complexities of spotting and amateur radio in general, this FAQ list cannot provide a detailed discussion of all the ins and outs of amateur radio tornado spotting. [see the
Keith Brewster page mentioned above.] The often goes under the name . spotting program SKYWARN Lacking an amateur radio operator's license and gear, a Citizen's Band radio might work
as an acceptable substitute. Also, a cellular phone might be useful for the purpose of reporting. See the Storm Chaser Homepage for more information about reporting what you see. Lacking
some "instant" communication system (like a cell phone or a 2-way radio of some sort), it's not clear that chasers actually can offer much help in terms of spreading the word of an approaching
tornado. Generally speaking, if you are a storm chaser and you are in or near a community that already has been struck by a tomado, common sense ought to prevail: 1. If you see casualties
and there is no one else about, a good conscience would suggest that you stop and render first aid. Most states have "Good Samaritan" laws that will protect you from lawsuits ... but if you lack
the knowledge to help a seriously injured person, you also need to consider whether or not you would do more harm than good by attempting to help. If the choice is to stand by and simply let
someone die, then by all means try to help, of course. Learning CPR and First Aid is probably not a bad thing for all chasers to do. 2. Unless you are asked to help by local emergency officials,
you probably shouldget out and stay outof any torado-damaged areas. At the very least, you could be getting in the way of responsible help-givers, and you may be taken for a gawker or
even a potential looter by the police. Even if you make a report in real time, but especially if you don't, please in terms of severe weather to the nearest office of the National Weather Service
at some point, even if it is days after the event. It helps to have precise locations of the events (not location necessarily, but where the event occurred), and times of occurrence. Doing this
ensures that what you saw can become part of the official climatological record of what happened. The criteria for severe weather are: 1) hail 2 cm [3/4 inch] in diameter, or larger, 2)wind
gusts 25 meters per second [58 mph] or higher, 3) certain types of straight-line wind damage [trees uprooted, significant damage to homes and structures, etc.], 4) any tornado.report what
you sawyourofficial 14. How do tornadoes form? This is far from being completely understood. See my essays on tomadoes: (1) after VORTEX and (2) a tornado. Basically, we currently
believe many tornadoes come from supercell storms but some tornadoes are produced by non-supercell storms. A supercell is a rotating storm, but not all tornadoes come from supercells and
not all supercells produce tornadoes. Trying to understand more about tomadoes was a major purpose of the . Tornadoes develop from weaker vortices that "spin up" into tornadoes. Under the
right conditions, the initial weak vortex undergoes a process called "stretching" ... not unlike the way an ice skater spins up by pulling in his/her arms ... in physical terms, this is known as
Once it begins, the development of a tornado can proceed very quickly ... in a matter of a few minutes. The weaker vortices that sometimes become tornadoes apparently can form in a number
of different ways, so not all tornadoes have the same origins. Where storms seem to differ from each other is in the way the weak vortex that spins up into a tornado is created ... some storms
don't seem to create them at all, others create the weak vortices but for reasons not understood, they don't go on to become tomadoes, some storms create tornado-like vortices aloft but they
never intensify at the surface, and a few seem to create tornadoes from these weaker vortices pretty easily. All of the complexity of the real atmosphere makes this question a harder to answer
than you might think. Progress has been made, but a simple, comprehensive answer to the question seems unlikely any time soon. thoughts defining VORTEX project conservation of angular
momentumlot 15. Where and when should I go to chase tornadoes? There are two ways to answer this question. The is the version: in general, tornadoes are most frequent in what is,
commonly called "Tornado Alley" (see Figure 1), during the months from April to June. The central plains of the United States have the most frequent and most violent tornadoes of anyplace on
the planet, but they can occur at other times and places, including other countries (e.g., France, Russia, Australia, Argentina, India, South Africa, Canada, and others). If you're planning a
chase vacation, the most "chase-able" tornadoes (i.e., tornadoes during daylight, not moving too fast to chase and not so wrapped in clouds and rain that they're difficult to see, in country
without a lot of hills, trees, and buildings) are most common in Tomado Alley, from early May through mid-June. Obviously, depending on the overall weather pattern, the focus for tornadic
activity during chase vacation may shift to some place other than the climatologically-favored region firstclimatologicalyour Figure 1. Chuck Doswell's version of Tomado Alley. This does not
necessarily agree with actual observed distributions of tormadoes ... many tornadoes go unreported in the sparsely-populated High Plains. The way to answer this question is the version:
basically, an accurate forecast is difficult because our state of knowledge does not permit precise forecasts of when and where tomadoes are going to occur. Therefore, you shouldn't expect to
have someone else answer it for you. Learn how to make your own forecasts! And you'll have to deal with the inevitable mistakes (bad forecasts).secondday-by-day 16. Does "Dorothy" or
something like it (as seen in "Twister") actually exist? In the movie "Twister," the chasers are trying to deploy something called "Dorothy" that consists of a large number of instrument
packages inside plastic "bubbles" that will send data about the tornado back to the chasers. The container holding these sensors looks to be modeled after a real instrument package called
"TOTO" (for TOtable Tornado Observatory) that was developed by Dr. Al Bedard of ERL in Boulder. The idea was for a chaser to put TOTO down in the path of a tornado so that data from the
passage of the tornado would be recorded on magnetic tape. TOTO was roughly the size of a 55 gallon oil drum and was designed to stay put (hopefully) during the passage of a tomado. For a
number of years, it was carried about during storm chases by Prof. Howard Bluestein of the , University of Oklahoma. Then, TOTO was given to NSSL to attempt deployment. All these efforts
were essentially unsuccessful because it's difficult to put objects in the path of a tornado! Only once was TOTO put nearly into the tomado path; that particular chase effort is immortalized by
the PBS "NOVA" program on tornadoes that aired first in 1986. TOTO has been "retired" for a number of years and now rests quietly in the NOAA museum in Silver Spring, Maryland. School of
Meteorology As it now stands, the technology that "Dorothy" uses is probably within our real capabilities (especially with respect to Department of Defense technology), but only if tornado
research programs get significant increases in their funding ... no one is really developing these in the back of an RV! There are several technical barriers to achieving that sort of a probe of a
tornado (although with enough funding anything becomes possible). Perhaps most important, having such a "swarm" of sensors within the circulation of a tornado would not provide all that
much of value for tornado forecasts and warnings. Knowledge of the actual processes going on in a tomado are of considerable scientific interest, but it is quite unlikely that such knowledge
would lead to increased warning lead times (which was stated during the movie). To increase the warning lead times, we need to know more about how and why tornadoes form in some storms
and not in others. Moreover, we need to sample many storms. Probing one example doesn't really represent all that much of a potential breakthrough ... every storm is different. During
VORTEX, scientists attempted to deploy an improved version of TOTO, called "turtles." More information about the VORTEX turtles can be found . At least one successful deployment of turtles
was done during VORTEX, but the results are not yet available. here 17. Why does "Tornado Alley have so many tornadoes? The idea of "Tornado Alley" is not a scientific one ... it's something
that has been created by the media. However, it is certainly true that tornado frequency varies around the United States (and, indeed, around the world). Some places have pretty high tornado
frequencies compared to the rest of the world and it's inevitable that someone wants to call such locations by the term "Tornado Alley." However, at face value, this question is pretty difficult to
answer. If we don't understand tornado formation completely (and we don't) then we couldn't possibly explain why some regions have a higher frequency of tornadoes than others
Nevertheless, I say this much: the unique geography of the plains east of the Rockies make it a region with high tornado frequency during early and middle spring. In late winter and early
spring, tornadoes also occur with relatively high frequency in the states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. Although it is simplistic to use the notion of the "clash of air masses" that is so popular in
the media, the juxtaposition ofcan (1) dry, unstable air from the west, on top of (2) low-level moisture from the Gulf of Mexico, and in the presence of (3) strong temperature contrasts to
develop vertical wind shear produces conditions favorable for the development of supercells, and it seems that most strong and violent tornadoes come from supercells. Anything that promotes
supercells also makes tornadoes more likely. The Great Plains and the Southeast show the highest risks of tornadoes, and so could collectively make up a region someone might want to call
"Tornado Alley," but even within the local peaks of tornado frequency, tornadoes (especially the violent kind) are still pretty ... whereas outside of the peak frequency regions, tornadoes are
even less frequent . If a tornado is possible, I know of no reason why a tornado is not possible, as well. Ask the citizens of Worcester, Massachusetts, or Edmonton, Alberta (in Canada). rare
events but still possibleviolent tornadoes happen outside of version of "Tornado Alley" so living outside of the regions of peak frequency in the U.S. does not make anyone safe from tornadoes
they've happened in every state, and they'll happen again in those locations, if you wait long enough. If you live in a place where tornadoes can happen, but you've convinced yourself
somehow that tornadoes happen where you live, then you may not take appropriate actions to prepare yourself for the rare, but real risk of a tornado.Manyanyone'sdon't 18. How do chasers
know when a tornado is changing its direction of movement? This question has become surprisingly common, obviously triggered by the abilities shown by the Bill Harding character in
"Twister." There are some occasions in the movie where Bill's profound "understanding" of storms allows him to anticipate changes in a tornado's movement. Most of Bill's apparent ability is
pure fiction. Tornado movement is dominated by movement of the storm that produces the tornado, and for the most part, tornadoes do exhibit the erratic movement so popular in movies
(induding those in "Twister" and the swaying back and forth of the tornado in "The Wizard of 02"). When tornadoes make sudden changes in direction, it's typically whenever they are affected
by an outflow .... as in the beautiful Cordell, Oklahoma tornado movie shot on 22 May 1981 by Howie Bluestein. In such cases, the tornadoes are usually on a rapid road to dissipation. In some
cases, it be possible to anticipate the impact of an outflow boundary on a tornado, but it's certainly going to be difficult to do so until the change is already underway. I know that I'm not that
good!notmight 19. In "Twister" at the end, they show the inside of a tornado that has a clear "eye" extending from the ground up into the clouds. Is this true? It is important to keep in mind
that and any resemblance between what is shown in the movie and reality is purely coincidental! Within the core of any vortex, there must be a point where the rotating part of the wind goes
to zero ... if the tornado's moving, the air at that point must be moving with the same speed as the vortex ... otherwise, it'd be flowing out of the tornado. Is there really a dear "eye" in
tornadoes, as there is in tropical cyclones but on a smaller scale? Again, not all tomadoes are the same, but at least some tornadoes have an eye-like structure ... as shown in some special
radar data collected during the VORTEX. However, we've no scientific observations that would confirm or deny that it is clear within such an "eye." It appears quite possible, but no one really
knows for sure. From a scientific viewpoint, this isn't the most compelling issue ...in other words, it's not a top scientific priority to know whether or not tornadoes have clear "eyes.""Twister is
just a movie 20. How do I become a professional storm chaser? Chasing as a career is basically not an option ... storm chasing is not a profession. To date, the only ways I know of to make
money from chasing are: a.Sell storm photographs and video. In effect, this is NOT being paid to chase ... it is being paid to be a photographer or videographer of storms. In order to be
successful at this to any real extent, you need to be a photographer and/or videographer of some considerable skill to compete in the image markets, and have some knowledge of business
Plus, you will need to be a good storm chaser! b.Chase storms for a TV station. In some parts of the country (including those of us here in central Oklahoma), TV stations have hired chasers to
get them live and recorded storm footage. I have no clue what they pay their chasers, but I doubt if they will be paying them outside of the local "storm season unless they are doing
something else for the station during the rest of the year. Thus, this hardly qualifies as a "career" either. c.Give guided "chase tours"There are enough new people wanting to chase storms that
some folks are attempting to fill this niche by giving "chase tours." Naturally, this will require some considerable investment in vehicles, etc.; riding herd on a number of people doesn't
strikemeas much fun (personality clashes, trying to find motel rooms at the end of a chase day, keeping track of everyone, listening to complaints about not seeing a tornado, etc.). If anyone
makes much income this way, they willearnevery dime, in my opinion. It will be a very seasonal business, so they have to make enough from their customers to continue to eat duting the time
of year when storms are rare, unless they have some other income source. I'm willing to bet that a lot of unsatisfied customers (with unrealistic expectations of what they will see) will be a
continuing source of trouble. There may be some very limited opportunities for a few folks to make enough income to survive from one or more of these three options, or some option about
which I don't know, but storm chasing is hardly a mass market. You'll need to have some important skills apart from chasing in order to survive, either in marketing or business, as well as such
skills as photography/videography. Please accept the fact that chasing is basically a (and an expensive one!) that you at best be able to earn enough from to make it pay for itself. There are not
likely ever to be true professional storm chasers! There are scientists who may chase storms for scientific purposes, but they're not professional storm chasers, either ... they're scientists who
use storm chasing to learn about storms.hobbymight 21. What's the relationship between storm and storm ?chasingspotting are mostly unpaid volunteers who serve their local communities in
mitigating the impacts of hazardous events like tornadoes. They're generally not allowed to roam freely about, chasing whatever storms they wish. Rather, they have a job to do and they've
generously volunteered their time on behalf of the citizens in their community. Chasing is basically irresponsible activity (or, perhaps somewhat less pejoratively, activity), done by individuals
who, for reasons of their own (some good, some not-so-good), want to see storms. Storm spotters self-centered 22. I want to build a "toy" tomado vortex model. Can I get plans or ideas
about how to do this? An effort to produce something on this topic by several of us (at OU/NSSL) has been on the back burner for a looong time ... please see the following for information
about how to acquire a tape that, among other things, teaches you how to build low-cost tornado models. site 23. I've heard about a method for detecting tornadoes by the sounds they make.
How does this work? Sorry, this isn't something I know anything about. Please check out the created by Dr. Al Bedard of NOAA's Environmental Technology Laboratory. Website 24. What about
the famous, extremely damaging tomadbes, like , Texas this year (27 May 1997), or the of 18 March 1925? How should these events be handled? Jarrell Tri-State tornado I've written
extensively about what is , elsewhere. It's typical of weather that the events are events. Because extreme damage is rare, we really don't know very much about such events. A related sort of
rare event is a violent tomado in a region not known for frequent tornadoes, like the Worcester, Massachussetts tornado of 09 June 1953. Of course, if violent tornadoes are rare in general (say
one event out of 100), and tornadoes of intensity are rare in some location, it's still possible for a violent event to occur in a place where tornadoes are rare ... but they will not happen very
often, right? Tornadoes are rare events to begin with, and the occasional violent examples are on the margins of an already rare event. When such events do happen (and some), as they
inevitably must, they're memorable and tend to stand out as a result. Perhaps they stand out much ... they're always in some sense unrepresentative of the "average tornado" (whatever might
mean!). normal extremerareanysomewherewhentoothat Our records really contain too few such extreme events to be confident we know such things as how often they occur, or where they're
most common. The Tri-State tomado is particularly disturbing, as we've not seen anything even remotely like it since then, and there are perhaps some reasons to question whether or not it
was a single tornado ... the available data are subject to different interpretations because the hard facts about such storms in 1925 are pretty sparse. What we know about tornado climatology
says that there will be something on the order of 5-20 violent tornadoes (F4-F5) in any given year ... we certainly do not have a clear idea of where or when they will occur. If we ever see
something like the Tri-State tornado again, it dearly is a rare event , well out on the margins of rare events! There've probably been an average of at least 1000 tornadoes per year since 1925
(although the climatological record shows far fewer, of course), so the Tri-State event is something like 1 in 72, 000, at least! Until we have something like it again, we don't know how large
that number is going to go. I have an essay on some that's relevant to the occasional violent tornadoes like Jarrell, or whatever. If we're willing to wait long enough (say, millions of years),
there's no telling what we might see in terms of extremes ... but we have a fair ways to go before we enter our thousandth year of observing tornadoes with something like scientific care. Most
of us aren't going to live that long.do realities about tomadoes Ultimately, it's very difficult to anticipate the occurrence of an extreme event, to recognize that the situation has become
extreme, and to convey that recognition to anyone such that it would help. That is, it's unlikely that anyone would forecast another Tri-State or Jarrell tornado (we are very uncertain about
many aspects of the meteorology of these extreme events), it's not obvious that such an extreme tornado could be recognized for what it is in time for that recognition to do anyone any good
and, since tornadoes are rapidly-changing processes, by the time word got out, the situation might well have changed. It seems to me that what we need to do is to get the public to prepare
for the worst, because we meteorologists aren't likely ever to be able to guarantee that the worst will happen! It probably won't happen ... thats the nature of rare events (and an extreme
tornado is a rare example of an already rare event) ... but it would be foolish to assume that an particular tornado is going to do extreme damage.notnot 25. How effective are NWS tornado
forecast products and are they improving in accuracy? Please consult the latest by the American Meteorological Society. You might also want to consult my essay about the realities about
tornadoes, mentioned just above. The effectiveness of NWS tornado forecast products depends on more than just the accuracy of the forecasts! As noted above, public education is an
important factor in the reduction of casualties (and damage!) from tornadoes. Policy Statement 26. I've got an idea: why not use bombs (or flames, or liquid nitrogen, or whatever) to disrupt
tornadoes? This is an idea that seems to occur to folks and superficially it seems plausible. If we set off a big enough explosion (or whatever) to disrupt the tornado, it would save all those
lives and all that property. I have a number of points to make about this rather old idea:many The tomado is a process embedded within a larger process. Disrupting a tornado with explosions
or whatever could probably be made to work if the explosion is big enough (see my next point), but the processes that produced the tornado (the supercell thunderstorm) are still going on and
almost surely will create another tornado in short order. To disrupt the supercell would require titanic energies (see ) at least 10 times greater than those of the tornado itself.Item #2 The cure
(in the case of explosions or exothermic reactions) could be worse than the problem you are trying to alleviate. Citizens might justifiably resent having bombs exploding over their property, or
having liquid nitrogen-cooled air descend on their crops. Adding cold into a downdraft would certainly enhance it. Is this really going to have a detrimental effect on a tornado? No one knows
@ Have you considered the volumes of air that flow through supercell thunderstorm up- and downdrafts? We are talking about many cubic kilometers of air passing through the circulations. The
amount of energy that it would take to change the temperature (either heating or cooling) of the air passing through either the updraft or the downdraft would be huge. Sit down and calculate
what amount of energy is needed to change the temperature of one cubic kilometer of air by one degree Celsius, and then figure that a reasonably strong storm processes something on the
order of 70-100 cubic kilometers of air every 20 minutes or so. Big chunks of energy are involved here and the price of energy is an important factor. I am not convinced we are talking about
something practical (economically viable), even if it managed to be successful in suppressing the tornado. Consider the following cost discussion: If you want to do explosions instead of
heating or cooling the air, that in order to disrupt the tornado, you need the equivalent of about 1 kiloton of TNT. [I'm assuming that nuclear or thermonuclear detonations are out of the
question for obvious reasons!] What is the cost of that much explosive? What method are you going to use to deliver it to the right place, quickly? It isn't going to be via any motor vehicle, but
must necessarily be some sort of aircraft delivery system. Assume an effective delivery system (like an air-to-air missile from a jet aircraft) costs roughly $1 million, for each missile. I have no
clue what it would cost to operate an aircraft capable of delivering such a device, but it certainly is not like renting a car! Don't forget to include the cost of the pilot and any other aircraft crew,
plus the maintenance costs for the aircraft, plus hangar fees, plus the maintenance crew and lodging for everyone, plus training for this specialized mission, plus practice runs. Figure on the
training and overhead for a crew of 10 people to coordinate all of this activity. In order to deliver the "cure" to any location in the tornado-prone part of the U.S., even using jet aircraft, you will
need about 100 crews ... remember, the typical tornado only lasts a few minutes. Including all the overhead associated with the delivery system, a conservative estimate would be that each
shot would cost several million dollars. We are talking Department of Defense-type systems, here.assume Once you know the approximate cost of doing this exercise once for a single tornado,
then multiply that by roughly 1000, for each reported tornado. That amounts to something like several billion dollars per year. Balance all this against the annual tornado damage figures (on
the average, about $500 million). If the cost of carrying out this exercise is not less than that damage figure, which it isn't, it's not worth doing even if it be made to work.could We're much
better off putting resources into improving forecasts and warnings for tornadoes than we would be trying to prevent them by silly "brute force methods along these lines. Moreover, we've no
idea what atmospheric consequences might arise if all tornadoes were successfully suppressed. In my opinion, unless we can be reasonably sure of the consequences, it'd be dangerous to
interfere with the atmosphere's workings. As it stands, however, we're unlikely to see any feasible effort to suppress tornadoes anytime soon. [See also , below]Item #37 27. What's the story
with seismic detection of tornadoes? This is also something I don't know much about. The concept of seismic detection of tornadoes is based on the hypothesis that tornadoes create some sort
of distinctive seismic signature; that is, waves that propagate in the solid earth. A Website describing it briefly can be found . Seismic tornado detectors are being marketed by a private
company. I can't comment about the efficacy of seismic tornado detection .. it's not yet been the subject of a thorough scientific test by an independent researcher, and no substantive
evaluation of the system has appeared in the refereed scientific literature. My advice is: ! here caveat emptor 28. A while back I heard about a way to detect tornadoes using a television. How
does this work? A number of years back, it was thought that tornadoes had some detectable signature in the radio frequency part of the electromagnetic spectrum, presumably owing to some
sort of special lightning caused by tornadic versus non-tomadic storms. Decades ago, someone named Weller even came up with a method using a television (which is transmitted on radio
frequencies) to detect tornadoes (please don't ask me for details ... I know them and I don't to know them). For the moment, these ideas have not gained many supporters within that part of
meteorological science associated with tomado research ... in my opinion, there is no credible evidence suggesting that tomadic storms have some unique signature in the radio frequency part
of the electromagnetic spectrum, compared to non-tornadic storms. I know of no systematic study that demonstrates the method work! If it did, then there might be some interest in
understanding it worked.don'twantdoeshow 29. What effect is El Nifio having on tornadoes? I've discussed the supposed effects of El Nifio on the weather, in general, on my page (item #
8.12). Although El Nifio (and its counterpart, La Nifia) certainly can influence the general circulation pattern around the world, and that pattem (in turn) alters the probabilities of certain
events, it's absurd to say that a particular tornado was "caused" or "spawned" or "driven" by El Nifio. In spite of the fact that it appears that El Nifio can make some events more (or less) likely,
this does imply that a particular event (e.g., a tornado) is to El Nifio. Pet Peeves notdirectly attributable 30. Is it true that tornadoes avoid (follow) rivers (or other topographic features)? In
many locations around the world, it's widely believed that tornadoes are deflected by such things as rivers, hills, or other topographic features. Although there are good reasons to believe that
tornadoes are indeed influenced by topographic features, it's also true that there have been notable exceptions to the local mythology about tornadoes being deflected by such things. For
example, it was accepted for a long time that Topeka, Kansas was protected by a hill called Burnett's Mound to the southwest of town ... this idea may have had its origins in Native American
legends. However, on 08 June 1966, a violent tornado went directly over Burnett's Mound on its way into Topeka! So much for legend! During the 03-04 April 1974 tormado outbreak, a violent
tornado apparently went right up the side of a 3,000 foot mountain and then right down the other side, all without any break or diminution in damage along its path. It seems that for violent
tornadoes, at least, "obstacles" like hills and rivers mean virtually nothing.that Most significant tornadoes are thousands of feet tall, so that it seems unlikely to me that minor bumps in the
terrain, or a river valley is going to have all that much of an effect on such a tornado. However, this is not to say that topographic effects are completely negligible. There is evidence that
alterations in the low-level winds by topographic features may make tornadoes more or less likely in a given weather situation, or might nudge the tornado path one way or another. Based on
available evidence, such effects seem most likely in cases where the tornado is not a violent one. This has not been studied to the point where it is possible to offer a strong conclusion ... but it
seems very unwise to count on the efficacy of some topographic feature to protect you and your property from a tornado. 31. Does a tornado really suck a water out of a well, or a swimming
pool? For many decades, it was believed that the pressure drop within a tormado vortex was capable of all sorts of things: sucking wells, rivers, or swimming pools dry; making buildings
explode; pulling the feathers off chickens; and other bizarre tornado "oddities" reported from time to time. Although we scientists still don't know the details of the pressure distribution at the
surface associated with tornadoes, it's now pretty much accepted that the pressure drop in tomadoes is probably on the order of a tenth of an atmosphere (~100 mb) or less. This sort of
pressure drop simply is incapable of doing most of the things that are attributed to tornadoes on occasion. Water is relatively heavy, and a pressure drop of 100 mb can only lift a water column
about 3 feet. Reports of swimming pools or wells sucked dry have always turned out to be false (they were empty the tomado came through). Most buildings can leak enough air that they
won't "explode" from the pressure effects ... the appearance of having exploded can be explained from the high-speed winds alone, according to engineers. Frightened chickens are known to
shed feathers as a defensive strategy. The strong winds in a tornado can whip up considerable spray when the tornado passes over a body of water, of course, but a tornado is unlikely to be
able to spray enough water from the surface to cause a river to be swept dry momentarily, or to drain a swimming pool (except perhaps a pool!). Most tornado "oddities" attributed to very low
pressures are certain to be either fabrications or misunderstandings of the observations.beforeveryshallow 32. Storm chasers seem to tornadoes to happen! This seems inappropriate, given
the destruction and death that tornadoes can cause. How can you chasers live with yourselves, wanting to see tornadoes?want This is a really troubling question, and one that was brought
home to me the day of the infamous Union City, Oklahoma tornado of 24 May 1973. We drove into the north side of town as the was leaving the town, towards the southeast. We arrived even
before people began to emerge from whatever shelters they had managed to find. It occurred to me suddenly that the event that I wanted to happen ... a tornado ... was responsible for all the
devastation that I saw. Indeed, how I live with this? This "revelation" caused me quite a bit of anxiety and forced me to think long and hard about what I was doing. toriado could Since I am
still chasing, I obviously came to some sort of accomodation, and it goes like this: My wanting to see a tornado doesn't one happen, so I can't possibly accept any responsibility for the
occurrence of a tornado that I happen to see. Like most , I have absolutely no desire to see a tornado hit anything more substantial than open grasslands, but nature doesn't necessarily
accomodate us on that score, either. Tornadoes happen or they don't happen according to whims, not ours.the atmosphere doesn't care one bit what I want!make responsible chasers nature's
Since tornadoes and tonadic storms are well outside of our control, the best anyone can do is learn how to predict when and where they are going to happen, in hopes that such knowledge
can lead to saving lives and reducing injuries. For myself and a number of other responsible chasers, I can point to several contributions from storm chasing that I believe have contributed
toward these goals: scientific papers that have increased our understanding of tornadoes and tomadic storms, slides and videos contributed at no charge for the purpose of developing , etc. 1
take considerable satisfaction from knowing that chasing has allowed me to give something back to all the citizens who live under the threat of tornadoes. Although we can't yet do much to
prevent the damage and disruption that tornadoes can cause, I'm confident that storm chasing and the fruits of having meteorologists see real tornadoes for themselves have improved
Responsible storm chasers have no reason to feel guilty about being excited by the spectacle of severe storms. I can't say the same for irresponsible chasers, of course. spotter training
programs our society's capability to deal with these events 33. Are tornadoes becoming more (or less) frequent? Is this related to global climate change? The historical record of tornadoes is
pretty short. Although records of tornadoes in the United States go back to pre-Revolutionary times, it's obvious that the settlement of the tornado-prone areas in this country wasn't very
extensive until the 1920s or so. The record of the number of tornadoes observed has been changing, but it is not at all obvious that these changes reflect anything more than a large collection
of biases in our records. Obviously, the number of toradoes is not the same from year to year... a certain amount of interannual variability is typical. The relative brevity of reliable tornado
occurrence data (as discussed or ) means that we do not know the interannual variability very accurately. We still are seeing new "records" set ... October of 1998 saw the largest one-day
outbreak of tomadoes ever in the month of October. The number of tornadoes during January 1999 (with several outbreaks on different days) set an all-time record for January, by a wide
margin. These suggest that we have not yet seen the extremes possible during some given year ... I noted in that we have not seen the like of the Tri-State tornado since it occurred. However,
given that it happened in 1925, it's possible that it was not a tornado. But if it was, we have no idea how long we might have to wait to see a similar example. Similarly, we have not had a
reoccurrence comparable to the 3-4 April 1974 tornado outbreak in 25 years. Who knows how long we would have to wait to match or exceed that "Superoutbreak?" Logically, if we have seen
only event of a particular sort, then we have no clue about the of such events! here here Item #24singleonefrequency Furthermore, the way we now keep records about tornadoes is different
than the way we did it in the past. This makes difficult the task of comparing records from early in the 20th century to those we keep today. Therefore, it's pretty much impossible to know just
what our records from more than about 40 years ago might show if they had been keeping track of tornadoes back then in the same way we do now. And it is likely that things will be different
40 years into the future, as well ... we probably are not doing our record-keeping today in a way that will look acceptable to scientists in the future. Therefore, an honest answer to the here is,
"we don't know, and have no credible basis for saying that any long-term change in tornado frequency is happening."first question As for the , the connection between global circulation
patterns and tornadoes is pretty tenuous, and our current state of understanding simply doesn't permit us the luxury of affirming or denying the relationship between putative global climate
changes and the occurrence frequencies of tornadoes. There are many, complex physical linkages between the global climate and a tomado ... it would be very difficult to be confident of that
whole large set of mostly nonlinear connections along that path (see item #29, above). I don't believe that our scientific knowledge permits answer to this question, much like the first. Those
who say that they what will happen to tornado frequency if the climate changes in a certain way are, in my opinion, either misguided in their beliefs or may even be engaged in
deception.second questionanyknow 34. Why do tomadoes rotate counterclockwise? Of course, it is true that tornadoes counterclockwise in the Hemisphere; in the Hemisphere, most
tornadoes rotate . About 99 out of 100 tornadoes rotate (counterclockwise in the N. Hem., clockwise in the S. Hem.) because the initial weak circulations that go on to become tornadoes rotate
cyclonically (recall , above). These vortices that eventually give rise to tornadoes rotate cyclonically because of the way the thunderstorm updraft interacts with vertical wind shear (see my
WARNING: the "primer" can get pretty technical) ... this process typically makes rotation the sense of rotation for vortices that go on to become
tornadoes. mostNorthemSouthernclockwisecyclonicallyitem #14 Primer on Vorticity cyclonicpreferred It might be tempting to look for the preferred sense of tornadic rotation in the rotation of
the . However, the Earth's rotation is only related to the process that gives rise to tornadic rotation, through the way it influences vertical wind shear. the rotation of the earth can not be related
to a tornado's rotation because on the space and time scales of a tornado, the rotation of the earth is completely negligible. Perhaps the most compelling evidence is that numerical simulation
models that begin with observed vertical wind shear characteristics can reproduce most of the behavior of tornadic thunderstorms, even when the earth's rotation is ignored in those simulation
models.earthindirectly It can be shown that directly Rarely, the initial vortex that goes on to become a tornado rotates ; that is, in the opposite direction to most tornadoes. In such instances,
the resulting tornado rotates anticyclonically. The same thunderstorm that produces a cyclonic tornado can sometimes also produce an anticyclonic tornado, but not in the same of the
thunderstorm where cyclonic tornadoes form.anticyclonicallypart 35. By what mechanism can a tornado produce "oddities" -- such as when they pick up fragile objects, carry them through the
air, and set them safely down -- undamaged ~- hundreds of feet away? There are no satisfactory answers to questions of this sort. Tornadoes create complex wind pattems that interact with
complex structures (like homes with fragile objects inside them) to produce even complexity. If you ever have seen tornado videos, perhaps you can appreciate how complicated they are,
especially near the surface, where the damage is done. "Freak" events are actually rather commonplace amidst the devastation of tornadoes ... being in a tornado involves being in a very odd
place, where strange things are the rule, not the exception ... sort of a terrible, nightmarish version of Alice's Wonderland.verymore So-called "freak" occurrences cannot be "explained" in
specific cases because we have no way of knowing just what was happening with enough detail. That is, we would need to know the detailed wind patterns right near the surface from one
second to the next, as the tornado interacted with the structures ... wind information of this sort is simply not available, even with the best technology we have at the moment. Any
"explanation" that didn't have enough data to validate it would be unscientific ... it be the correct version of how that event happened, but there would be no way to verify it, so it would be
mere speculation and, hence, unscientific.might When objects are carried into the air, it seems that at least some of them come down for reasons we can only speculate about. I personally
have seen some examples of odd things that occurred in tornadoes and asked the same sorts of questions, but we just don't have the information with which we could even to develop some
idea of a specific event actually was created.gentlytryhow 36. Was the tornado that hit the Oklahoma City area on 3 May 1999 actually an F-6 tornado? Was it the worst tornado ever? A lot of
hype has been perpetuated about this ... so much so, in fact, that I've written an essay about it, that can be found . In short, I don't believe that an F-6 rating has any meaning, so the question
is without basis. As for it being a record-breaking event ... there's no way to know, but I that it was the worst ever. My colleague, Harold Brooks, and I have developed that the worst tornado
event in U.S. history, in terms of , might have been the tornado that hit St. Louis, MO in 1896! The worst tornado ever, in terms of is the Tri-State tornado of 1925, of course (see item #24,
above). See my essay for an in-depth discussion of tornado "records" however. here doubt evidence damagefatalities, 37. Is it possible that we could prevent tornadoes by cloud seeding (or
other means of intervention)? This idea has received a fair amount of media attention of late, to the extent that I also wrote an essay about it, which can be found . The short answer is that I
don't believe there is any credible scientific evidence to suggest that this is possible. I am opposed to putting taxpayer dollars into research projects that have no plausible evidence to support
them. It seems to me that we should have some reasonable expectation of the proposed method being (a) , (b) , and (c) (in terms of negative side effects) before we even consider exploring
the possibility of altering the weather. here effectivepracticalsafenatural 38. What about electrical and/or magnetic influences on tornadoes? The history of tornado research is replete with
hypotheses about the influences of electricity and/or magnetism on tomadoes. There are many eyewitness stories of strange electrical phenomena (virtually seen during observations by
qualified scientists!) in association with tornadoes. In bygone times, when it was widely believed that tornadic winds reached 500 mph or even higher, it was believed that purely meteorological
processes could not explain such high windspeeds. Hence, all sorts of electrical and/or magnetic effects were postulated to be important, most of which were impossible to substantiate.never
With time, many of these exotic explanations have been abandoned because there is no need to explain . Such windspeeds can, in fact, be produced by "ordinary" meteorological processes and
do not require additional explanation via electrical or magnetic effects. Scientific analysis shows that electrical effects in thunderstorms are only a trivial part of the storm's energy (see for some
discussion), so it appears to be unlikely that electrical and/or magnetic effects (notably, lightning) play meaningful role in creating or controlling tornadoes. windspeeds beyond about 300 mph
here any The idea of a relationship between tornadoes and electricity/magnetism persists, however. Many non-meteorologists continue to believe that tornadoes are uniquely associated with
storms characterized by unusual lightning activity. The reality is, however, that (a) most storms with unusually high doud-to-ground (CG) flash rates are toradic, and (b) many tornadoes occur
in association with storms having CG flash activity. Granted, we do not presently have a way to monitor all conceivable electrical and magnetic activity in association with convective storms.
Hence, the door remains open to speculation. In the absence of the capability to observe all possible electrical and magnetic activity, an influence presently unobserved be operating. Since
there is no capability to refute many such hypotheses, postulates of that sort remain outside the domain of science.notlittle or nocould We should soon have the capability to monitor
intra-cloud (IC) flash rates more or less continuously on a global scale (from satellites), as well as CG flash rates (from ground-based sensors) over most of the United States. It is certainly
possible