Land Rover stands 40 foot high at Goodwood! Gerry Judah's largest and most impressive Central Display structure will feature at the 2008 Goodwood Festival of Speed from July 11-13.
Positioned directly in front of Goodwood House, the eye-catching 40 ft raw steel rock structure - featuring five Land Rover vehicles (one of each nameplate) and designed in celebration of the
company's 60th anniversary - was unveiled last night by Lord March at the official opening of this year's event. "Land Rover's global success and enviable reputation has been built over the last
60 years on the manufacture of robust and dependable vehicles that can tackle any driving condition in any terrain ~ and this was the inspiration for the spectacular Central Feature Sculpture.
For me, this is one of the most awe-inspiring and memorable displays we have ever had at the Festival. It's arguably our most artistic too, with its naturally rusted steel structure. It is certainly
magnificent," commented Lord March at the reveal last night. Land Rover, this year's featured marque, will celebrate its 60th anniversary at the Festival with a strong presence showcasing its
past, present and future. The first ever pre-production Land Rover from 1948, affectionately known as HUE, will be on display alongside the current product line-up, the Defender SVX Limited
Edition - launched to mark the milestone anniversary - and the acclaimed LRX concept cross-coupe ~ a bold evolution of Land Rover design that signals the brand's future direction. Terrapod
and mini-terrapod - Land Rover's dynamic demonstration displays will also be available for those who want to test out the capability of Land Rover's key products, and all proceeds will go to the
British Red Cross. The Company will also be providing a fleet of support vehicles for use by the marshalls. "The Goodwood Festival of Speed is a prestigious, international motoring event which
is beautifully executed - a perfect environment to showcase the premium brand values of Land Rover," said John Edwards, managing director, Land Rover UK. "This year is Land Rover's 60th
anniversary - what better environment to celebrate in, with the opportunity to create a huge, visual display to showcase the supreme capability of our vehicles, directly in front of the main
house for all to see." Source: Land Rover