[] edit Characteristics Two treatises, both dating from . 900, are usually considered the oldest surviving part-music though they are note-against-note, voices move mostly in parallel octaves,
fifths, and fourths, and they were not intended to be performed. The", from . 1000, are the oldest surviving example of practical rather than pedagogical polyphony, though intervals, pitch
levels, and durations are often not indicated. (van der Werf, 1997)ca Winchester Tropers c [] edit Historical context European polyphony rose out of melismatic , the earliest harmonization of
the chant. Twelfth century composers, such as and developed the organum that was introduced centuries earlier, and also added a third and fourth voice to the now homophonic chant. In the
thirteenth century, the chant-based tenor was becoming altered, fragmented, and hidden beneath secular tunes, obscuring the sacred texts as composers continued to play with this new
invention called polyphony. The lyrics of love poems might be sung above sacred texts in the form of a , or the sacred text might be placed within a familiar secular melody. organum L onin P
rotin trope These musical innovations appeared in a greater context of societal change. After the first millennium, European monks decided to start translating the works of Greek philosophers
into the vernacular, following in the footsteps of the Muslims who did that 500 years earlier. Western Europeans were aware of , , and during the Middle Ages. However they had largely lost
touch with the content of their surviving works because the use of Greek as a living language was restricted to the lands of the Eastern Roman Empire (). The ancient works, as well as
commentaries, started then being translated. Once they were accessible, the philosophies had a great impact on the mind of Western . Faced with new ideas, society was forced to view itself in
a different light as secular ideas competed with the doctrine of the Roman church. Plato Socrates Hippocrates Byzantium Muslim Europe This sparked a number of innovations in medicine,
science, art, and music. The oldest surviving piece of six-part music is the English (ca. 1240). (Albright, 2004) rota Sumer is icumen in [] edit Church European polyphony rose prior to, and
during the period of the . , the seat of the , was a vigorous center of secular music-making, much of which influenced sacred polyphony. Western Schism Avignon antipopes It was not merely
polyphony that offended the medieval ears, but the notion of secular music merging with the sacred and making its way into the papal court. It gave church music more of a jocular
performance quality removing the solemn worship they were accustomed to. The use of and attitude toward polyphony varied widely in the Avignon court from the beginning to the end of its
religious importance in the fourteenth century. Harmony was not only considered frivolous, impious, and lascivious, but an obstruction to the audibility of the words. Instruments, as well as
certain modes, were actually forbidden in the church because of their association with secular music and pagan rites. Dissonant clashes of notes give a creepy feeling that was labeled as evil,
fueling their argument against polyphony as being the devil s music. After banishing polyphony from the Liturgy in 1322, spoke in his 1324 Bull warning against the unbecoming elements of
this musical innovation. , however, indulged in it. Pope John XXII Docta Sanctorum Patrum Pope Clement VI It was in 1364, during the pontificate of , that composer and priest composed the
first polyphonic setting of the mass called . This was the first time that the Church officially sanctioned polyphony in . Pope Urban V Guillaume de Machaut La Messe de Nostre Dame sacred
music [] edit Notable works and artists