Product Support The book credits John Romero with inventing the culture of smack talk. Smack talk, of course, is the macho silliness that goes on constantly throughout online games as
players yell phrases like, "Suck it down!", "Eat this, Bi@$#!", and "Chew on hot rocket death, smacktard!" (The last being a Fargo classic). What most people don't realize is that smack talk has
been around far longer than that -- in fact, it has its genesis in the first generation of arcade games where kids at a local video-game emporium would boast about their gaming prowess the
way street ballers boast about their ability to drain the hoop. One game, however, gave players the ability to put their smack talk onto the machine itself and simultaneously opened the gaming
industry's eyes to the importance of multiplayer competition. That machine was . While was the earliest video game to track high scores, was the first to let you tag your hard-fought top honors
with your initials -- or, in many cases, whatever vulgar phrase you could cram into three letters. This one tiny, incredibly simple innovation, added a whole new competitive element to video
games, as early '80s arcade wizards battled each other furiously in a constant back-and-forth battle to push their signatures farther and farther up the screen. Perhaps, more importantly, was
the first video game to take the idea of multiplayer competition beyond one-on-one challenges that had no consequences beyond the actual players. High Score board meant that players didn't
have to play the game together in order to compete with one another, they could compete against a whole community. True, it wasn't the worldwide community today's Internet players enjoy,
but for players in the early '80s just being able to play against the kids who frequented the same pizza parlor you did was a revelation. That's why similar phrases could be heard in every place
that housed an -- "I don't know who SIC is, but I'm going to kick his ass!" was the top-selling coin-op game Atari ever produced, and is generally considered to be one of the best games of its
era. Would have been successful even if it didn feature the High Score feature? Probably. But considering that people are still it out for high scores over twenty years later, well ... we think it
pretty safe to say that this relatively minor addition had at least a little something to do with the mysterious quarter shortages that took place in the pockets of teenagers everywhere in the
years following ' release and the adoption of a similar system in every game that followed. I can imagine what arcades would be like if high scores were never invented. As a youngin', I wasn
good enough to get the high score on anything ~- just getting my initials near the bottom of the list was good enough for me. Also, at the time, I still found it hilarious to see stuff like "ASS,
POO, SEX" on the High Score screen. Another tactic I remember seeing was from a frustrated player who couldn top the machine's high score: below the top guy initials, he added "IS" and
then "DUM" under it. Za-zing. Atari nailed the original market for video games, the aforementioned "smoky bars" I talked about in my commentary for . From pool to darts to trying to pick up
the girl by the door, competitive games of dexterity thrived in that environment. took it to the next level -- you weren't just trying to top your buddy's score. You were gunning for the PRIDE of
topping the list, and staying there for days at a time. Nothing could drain your wallet faster. not only started a tradition -- it made a ton of shiny quarters in the process! How powerful is the
idea of the high score? There was an entire episode of that revolved around George desperately trying to preserve his high score on a game of that had remained unchallenged for 12 years. I'm
not that fanatical, but think about what arcade games were like during that era. You couldn't actually beat games like or or . They'd just keep to getting tougher and tougher until you died --
unlike today when arcade games actually have endings. Since you couldn't beat the machine, what was the incentive to keep coming back? Simple -- the thrill of beating some chump's high
score -- especially if there was a cute girl in leg warmers and Capezios around to be impressed. (Hey - it was the '80s!) Asteroids Gives Birth to Smack Talk