Do you own a Bowflex Power Pro? Please share your opinion :) How well do you feel the Bowflex Power Pro is made? Very well, high-quality all the way Good Not so good Have you found that
the Bowflex Power Pro has enough exercises for you? MORE than enough, maybe too many :) Good variety Not as many as I'd like Have you found that the Bowflex Power Pro lives up to its
promises? It delivers everything AND more It delivers A little over-hyped Have you found that the Bowflex Power Pro has enough resistance for you? More than enough For most exercises,
plenty of resistance A little light for leg exercises like squats and leg presses Have you found that the Bowflex Power Pro is better than other home gyms youe owned? Absolutely! :) Equal to
Not as good as free weights etc. Have you found that the Bowflex Power Pro is worth the money? Yes, it's not cheap, but it's not cheaply made either Fair price for what you get Over-priced
Would you buy the Bowflex Power Pro again? Absolutely! I felt skeptical, but I've found it's a great home gym Yes, I found it does a good job No Do You Own a Bowflex Home Gym? Visitors to
this page would LOVE to know what YOUR experiences with your Bowflex have been. Sharing your opinion is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you
enter it here. Don't worry, you'll be able to edit it on the next page. Please enter your title (exp. "My Bowflex Story" "My Bowflex Review" "Why I love my Bowflex" etc.) Please share your
experiences (for questions visitors would love to ask you, please click the question mark)[ ] ? Close Help Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page
exactly the way you enter it here. You can wrap a word in square brackets to make it appear bold. For example [my story] would show as on the Web page containing your story. TIP: Since
most people scan Web pages, include your best thoughts in your first paragraph. Questions Visitors Would Love to Ask You: my story How well do you feel your Bowflex is made? Have you
found that your Bowflex has enough exercises for your needs? Have you found that your Bowflex lives up to it's promises? Have you found that your Bowflex has enough resistance? Have you
found that your Bowflex is better than other home gyms you've owned? Have you found that your Bowflex is worth the money? Would you recommend getting a Bowflex home gym? Upload A
Picture (optional) ]? Do you have a picture to add? Great! Click the button and find it on your computer. Then select it. Add Picture Caption (optional) To receive credit as the author, enter
your information below. Your Name