Calaveras Gem & Mineral Society Angels Camp, California Established in 1948, the Calaveras Gem and Mineral Society continues to flourish and carry out its purpose of sharing knowledge and
interests in Rocks and Minerals with others who have the same interests and providing information to its members and the public. The club is a member of the California Federation of
Mineralogical Societies (CFMS) MEMBERS AREA Monthly Meetings The Calaveras Gem & Mineral Society holds meetings on the except in July and August. At each club meeting there is a
potluck, business meeting and main presentation, and members share other interesting information about the hobby.third Sunday of the month Join us at our on A DVD on wire wrapping will
be shown. next General MeetingSunday, January 18. Welcoming begins at 11:00 AM, Potluck at 12:00 noon, followed by the Regular Meeting. Meetings are held at the clubhouse, 2500
Meacham Ranch Road, Angels Camp, California The Calaveras Gem and Mineral Society's clubhouse is nestled among the oak trees in the Mother Lode foothills near Angels Camp, California

Lapidary Shop The club has a Lapidary Shop, which includes rock and trim saws, several cabbing units and polishers. Club members provide classes for novices and, those more
skilled, work at their own pace on jewelry and other lapidary arts projects.The club encourages the public to stop in and use its shop a couple of times at no charge. _Note: the Shop will be
during January.closed SEE REGULAR SHOP SCHEDULE... MORE ABOUT LAPIDARY Field Trips The club is currently emphasizing one-day field trips. In addition to sponsoring its own field
trips, its members are welcome to attend trips hosted by other Field Trip Chairmen's Association ("Co-op") clubs and the California Federation of Mineralogical Societies (CFMS).... MORE ABOUT
FIELD TRIPS Gem ShowThe dub hosts a each year at the Calaveras County Fairgrounds in Angels Camp. will be held . Gem and Jewelry Show and Salein MarchNext year's showMarch 28-29,
2009 The show generally includes a kid area, exhibit cases, demonstrations, snack bar, silent auction, door prizes and a raffle. Vendors sell such items as minerals, meteorites, fossils, gems,
rocks, jewelry, beads, tools and supplies for making jewelry. ... ABOUT the 2008 SHOW