warranties Resistance Systems: Higher end models use the eddy current brake system (ECB) that works electromagnetically with a precision-balanced aluminum disk that spins freely between
varialbe magnetic fields. This is extremely reliable & durable as there are few moving parts and no friction. Ellipticals using this technology operate smoothly and quietly and require Itittle
maintenance. Mid-range models are equipped with motorized brake systems that consist of a small motor that controls the magnetic brake. More servicing is required for motorized brake
systems (also called particle brake systems) due to the number of mechanical parts. These sytstems are for commercial applications.not recommended Manual resistance systems are utilized
in lower end machines. A u-shaped magnet is located about a 1/4 inch away from the flywheel and it is manually adjusted to increase or decrease the tension and thereby create resistance
Rear Drive versus Front Drive: Rear drive provides a true elliptical movement with a heel toe ellipse. It is generally preferable and is used on the top brands. Articulating pedals that angle with
your stride are not required. Generally rear drive is preferable to front drive and will provide a more strenuous workout. You will, however, pay more for rear drive as they are more expensive to
build. Companies that incorporate rear drives have developed and patented their designs. Front drive designs may feel awkward if the machines do not have articulating pedals. The articulating
pedals are more comfortable as they flatten to give a shuffling movement. Programming: Programs can vary with your specific fitness goals - designed for fat burning, cardio, anaerobic, or
aerobic exercising. This is a matter for personal preference. If you have used ellipticals in a gym or health club, you will have a general idea of what variety you will need. Programs on elliptical
trainers are similar to those found on treadmills and may even be the same electronic equipment if a company produces both. Consider quality first and programs second, when choosing an
elliptical trainer. Stride Length: A stride length of 16" - 19" is suggested. Shorted strides can lead to a choppy motion. Adjustable stride lengths that allow the user to adjust to their body size
is the direction that is emerging. Heart Rate Monitoring: Heart rate monitors provides feedback as to your heart rate. They generally work sufficiently well to give you an approximation of your
heart rate as you are exercising. This will help you determine an exercise level that will help you increase your metabolism and optimize the burning of fat. Heart rate monitors are normally
found on stationary handles located on the elliptical trainer console. Other models locate the monitor in moving handlebars. Heart rate monitors come in two types - handgrip and wireless
Hand grip monitors require that you hold onto stationary handlebars, and therefore you may not get the benefits of an upper body workout. Wireless controls attach with a strap around your
chest and information on your heart rate is transferred to the console. Warranties: Quality equipment is typically supported with a more extensive warranty. It is just common sense. An
elliptical trainer that is made with better quality components can be expected to last longer and the company producing it will likely support the product with a more extensive warranty. Look
for at least . If your budget limits you to an economy model with a shorter warranty, consider getting the extended warranty option.a minimum of one year on parts and labor Originally
elliptical machine offered only a lower body workout. In 1997, the by adding handles that were connected to the pedals thereby allowing the user to gain a no impact workout that utilizes the
quadricepts, hamstrings, glutes, chest back, tricepts and biceps.ellipitical cross trainer was developed With this total body training, the heart rate limbs quickly, easily reaching a training heart
rate of 160-175 beats per minute that is an optimum range for buming calories. This reduces the exercise time needed, while maximizing the number of calories burned. For overweight
individuals who are initiating a regular exercise program to decrease excess body fat, the elliptical cross trainer optimizes energy expenditure. Elliptical cross trainers provides the following
advantages: Time Efficiency - The dual action of arms and legs optimizes energy expenditure. Requires less time to achieve more results. Weight Bearing Exercise - Builds bone density and
burns calories more efficiently. Inhibits the onset of osteoporosis. No Impact Workout - Safe for joints. Ideal workout for people with back, knee, hips and joint problems. Low Maintenance -
Less impact means less wear and tear. Small Footprint - Does not take up valuable floor space. Passive Motion - Safe to use, Machine stops when you stop - not active like a treadmill