phoenix SCREEN GEMS A staple of late-night TV, infomercials (along with the products they sell and the people who pitch them) have developed something of a cult following. The spots, which
run anywhere from 30 seconds to 30 minutes, always seem to sell things that fix a problem you didnt know you had  from chopping veggies to turning an ant farm into a thriving metropolis.
Now you can get a closeup look at these amazing gadgets, thanks to . With a small prototype now open at Paradise Valley Mall, about 20 minutes from downtown Phoenix, shoppers get the
chance to test the products that entice insomniacs at 3 a.m. The Vidalia onion chopper is a top seller, as is Jack Zatorskis Push Up Pro exercise device. Virtually everything infomercial pitchman
Billy Mays promotes is available, including his popular Hercules Hooks. The store is organized into personal care, tools, home, family, and kitchen departments, so even if you're there to test
the Kiro travel pillow, you can also pick up some Moon Sand for a friend. Oh, and the average price of products? You guessed it: $19.95. For more info, call 602.324.8996.Sandstroms As Seen
On TV Store  David Tyda washington, d.c. ON THE CASE America's fascination with crime, criminals, and the justice system is getting a formal recognition.  the only one of its kind in the
world  opens this month in D.C. The museum provides an unvamished, unromanticized history of criminals, police detectives, the courts, and incarceration. Hundreds of historical artifacts,
including Jesse James revolver, Al Capone's shaving cabinet, and a reproduction of a 16th-century guillotine, fill three floors inside. The museum also invites visitors into interactive galleries
where they can try out the forensic techniques of fingerprint, DNA, and dental identification. Wannabe crime busters can also hone their skills in police car and shooting range simulators and in
a mock-up CSI lab. With a stated mission to help fight crime, the museum is also becoming a resource for real investigations: It houses the television studio of John Walsh's , where operators
take calls from tipsters every Saturday night. To find out more, visit .The National Museum of Crime & PunishmentAmericas Most Wanted crimemuseum.org  Judith Ritter pittsburgh
FRESH-AIR FLICKS This year marks the 75th birthday of an all-American tradition: the drive-in movie. What better place to celebrate than in Pittsburgh, where you'll find more than a dozen
drive-in theaters within an hour of the city, most offering first-run flicks? Best of all, these spots are date-friendly, kid-friendly, and wallet-friendly. Reopened last year, Twin Hi-Way is just ten
miles from downtown Pittsburgh. John Butya, a second-generation owner of the theater, grew up next door to it and fondly remembers hearing Godzilla eating Tokyo from his bedroom. He says
the effort to update the equipment and restore the old sign to its original 1950s glory paid off the first night they were back in business. I got a chill. What a wonderful feeling to see a movie
on that screen again. 5588 Steubenville Pike, McKees Rocks 412.494.4999Twin Hi-Way Drive-In twinhiwaydrivein.com Roll in to the Dependable for a snow cone, but dont be a stranger once
the summer blockbuster season is over. This aptly named theater is open year-round and attracts plenty of business through the winter months. What's cozier than watching a movie with a
blanket and a thermos full of cocoa? 500 Moon Clinton Rd., Coraopolis 412.264.7011Dependable Drive-In dependabledrivein.com This screen in the quiet farming community of Latrobe is a
wholesome spot that's ideal for tots (no R-rated movies). The only exception is October's haunted drive-in horror screenings, when local ghouls haunt the grounds. Aside from the occasional
smear of face paint on your windshield, its good clean fun. 225A Route 30 East, Latrobe 724.537.7418Hi-Way Drive-In