A|BIC|DIEI|F based reaction between (Deuterium) and Anti-matter (Anti-Deuterium) to go to faster-than-light speed. Anti-Matter has a negative charge but has the same mass and
size as Matter, which has a positive charge. Anti-Matter Warp drive depends on a warp core Matter An area of the which is the home of worlds such as the Federation, Betazed, Ferengi, the
Cardassian Union, Bajor and the Bajoran wormhole, which bridges a 70,000-lightyear shortcut to the Gamma Quadrant.Alpha Quadrant Milky Way The assimilates any species and
technology that they find useful. They are not interested in species with little biological or technological knowledge. Borg are injected into the victim's body through injection tubes coming out
from the drone's upper hand. The Nanoprobes uses the victims bloodstream and red blood cells to reach their targets within the body to rewrite the victims DNA. Borg implants and an are
created on the individual and the assimilated individual looses the hair and grows dark veins all over their exposed skin. A is installed in the cerebral cortex to allow the assimilated humanoid to
be included in the collective consciousness. Other that are installed, among others, are the regenerative force field generator, a subspace transponder and a neural link generator. Finally the
drone will be given a specified task to carry out within a specified unimatrix. The assimilated individual has now lost all sense of identity and is under total control of the hive mind. Assimilation
Borg Collective nanoprobes exoskeleton cortical Implant Borg implants _Irregularly shaped rocks in space that can be sized between a few feet and several miles wide. Most asteroids in
earth's solar system are part of a belt between Mars and Jupiter.Asteroids An area with many asteroids which often orbits a planetary system.Asteroid Belt Astral Eddy A tornado-like
phenomenon which form at the interfold between space and subspace. The phenomenon sends out massive discharges of plasmatic energy. Tom Paris piloted a shuttle through astral eddies in
episode Real Life. near the Cardassian border which is considered very dangerous for space travel because of the areas many Plasma storms. Sensors and warp drive might not work properly
in this part of space. Badlands Naturally occurring area in the Alpha Quadrant _. Barge of the Dead, The The vessel transporting dishonored klingons to Grethor _Bat'leth A two metre long
Klingon weapon with two handholds on the outside edge. The first bat'leth was, according to Klingon legend, created by Kahless when dropping a strand of his hair in a vulcano and later into
the lake Lursor. He then formed it into a bathleth which he used to kill Molor, a Klingon tyrant. A typical bat'leth is 116 centimeters long and is composed of baakonite metal. The bat'leth is
carried along the inside of the arm. where you find worlds such as Vulcan, Romulus and Qo'nos. You find the Beta Quadrant to the right of the Alpha Quadrant but below the Delta Quadrant.
Beta Quadrant An area of the Milky Way Binary stars are two stars that orbit around a common center of mass.Binary Stars Designed to protect the crew onboard starships from air
bourne pathogens. They are a part of the transporter technology and can be purged if viruses or other dangerous substances are detected while using the transporters.Biofilter has been
inspired by the humanoid nervous system. Synthetic bio-neural cells are the main component in the gelpacks. Bio-Neural Cells Voyager's gelpacks _, which are made from the same biological
substance as themselves. Bio Ships Vessels used by Species 8472 _. Black Hole A common name name for a Quantum Singularity __. Blood Pie A traditional Klingon dish, which consists of
raw liver placed on a bed of shredded vegetables. Many Klingons traditionally eat Blood Pie on the Day of Honor collective of assimilated individuals (Borg ) from different species that are
linked to each other in a massive collective called the hive mind.Borg, The Drones _. The cortical node also allows drones to interface with an alcove and regenerate. There is no back-up
system and a faulty cortical node will result in death for the drone If not replaced in time. The cortical node suppresses the humanoid immune system and prevents drones from rejecting Borg
If the cortical node is left inactive it quickly becomes useless. Borg Cortical Node The primary cortical node is installed through a circular interface in a port above the drones right eye. It
regulates all Borg cybernetic implants and is the most important part of the Borg drone implants _. The assimilated individual loses all sense of identity and is under total control of the hive
mind. Borg drones are always shown in an upright position, even during the regeneration cycle, and walk in a robot like fashion due to limitations of its . They possess a superior physical
strength and are almost invulnerable due to their ability to adapt to enemy weapons and to regenerate their borg drone shielding. Borg Drone A humanoid assimilated by the Borg Collective
exoscelleton . The armour is attached directly to the skin on all parts of the body, except for the face and parts of the head, and protects the drone from being damaged. Borg Exoskeleton
The outer armour covering the skin of Borg Drones _ and neural processors (see below) inside and outside the body of a Borg drone. Borg Implants Cybernetic devices like limbs, eyes, organs,
cortical nodes Borg Neural Processor All drones are equipped with a neural processor that sends out a neuro-electric field that is capable of regenerating damaged componants on other borg
drones, It can heal both organic and inorganic bodyparts. The drone dies if the implant is removed. Borg Regeneration Each Borg drone is assigned an alcove in which the drone regenerates
(refuels) its Borg system such as implants. Regeneration is the Borg equivalent to sleep and to achieve full power the drone must complete the full regeneration cycle. Borg Queen The Borg
Queen has maintained her individuality in a way that normal Borg drones can't. She spends most of her time in unimatrix 1 with her head and spinal column in her alcove. She seems to have a
mostly synthetic body filled with cybernetic implants below her head and shoulders. Bussard Collectors Bussard collectors are located at the front of the nacelles and carry the name of the
20th century Terran scientist who came up with the basic principles behind these collectors. They are used to collect particles, such as hydrogen atoms, that can be used as fuel. Chroniton
Particle A particle used for i.e. time travel. Krenim chroniton torpedoes successfully penetrated Vuyager's hull due to the torpedoes temporal flux. Chadre-Kab One of Neelix's dishes, which is
considered a Talaxian delicacy. It's a yellowish nutrient that can be prepared boiled, baked, stir fried, or steamed. C-Class Planet (Geoinactive) A planet with a low surface temperature, with
a frozen atmosphere, which can't sustain any life-forms. Pluto is a C-class planet. Cloaking Device A device invented by Romulans that uses an energy screen to mask lifesigns and shield
ships from detection. which consists of millions of assimilated humanoids linked to the Borg hive. Collective, The Short for the Borg Collective