The Lost Dog & Cat Rescue Foundation (LDCRF), a 501 c (3) non-profit organization, is a highly dedicated group of volunteers that rescues abandoned or displaced dogs and cats from the
threat of euthanasia by area shelters or other at-risk situations. Once in our care, these companion animals are fully vaccinated and spayed or neutered. We also provide for those animals who
need additional time and medical care before going to a new home. While awaiting placement in permanent, loving homes, these animals stay either at our boarding facility, the Lost Dog
Ranch (on 61 acres in Sumerduck, VA), or in foster homes. Each weekend, LDCRF conducts adoption events at pet supply stores in the DC-metro area. Our volunteers interview and educate
prospective adopters on the importance of proper veterinary care, nutrition, exercise, and obedience training to ensure a successful adoption for everyone involved. Another important role of
LDCRF is to reach out and educate the general public on the plight of homeless animals, the benefits of adoption, and the importance of spaying/neutering your pet. We participate in various
community activities and events to expand community awareness. As part of our community outreach and education program, LDCRF will conduct educational seminars at local schools,
community centers, or other locations. These seminars may be scheduled upon request; for more information please e-mail . education@lostdogrescue.org History The Lost Dog Cafe, located
at 5876 Washington Blvd. in Arlington, VA, has rescued, sponsored and placed hundreds of abandoned and unwanted animals over the past 13 years. In the spring of 2001, the owner's of the
cafe, Pam McAlwee and Ross Underwood, decided to increase the number of animals saved by forming their own rescue foundation. This is how the Lost Dog & Cat Rescue Foundation came to
exist. McAlwee & Underwood also work on the Lost Dog Ranch in Sumerduck, VA ( to take a virtual tour) , where they keep displaced dogs, and ones the foundation has saved from shelters,
until they can find homes for them. You can visit the Lost Dog Cafe at: Click here www. lostdogcafe.com.