The origins of Carnival can be tracked centuries back to Greek celebration honoring the God of Wine Dionysus. This festival influenced the creation of Bacchanalia, a tribute to Bacchus, the
Roman equivalent to Dionysus. Inspired, the Satumalia fe developed (Saturnalia literally translates into excess of the senses) leading to the Catholic Church using the fiesta as a lead up to.
Lent. All of these festivities contribute to the present day event we know as Carnival, a yearly celebration of the joy of life. In tribute to King Momo, the King of the Camaval, people join in
merry-making revelry as they prepare to begin abstinence throughout the 40 days of Lent. The roots of the Carnival can be traced back to 1723 when settlers from the Portuguese Islands
initiated the Entrudo, a street game of water, mud, and food tossing which involved everyone in the city. In 1840, the first of the balls took place - a masquerade ball where dancing to polka
and waltzes kept people moving throughout the event. Street parades became part of the festivities about ten years later, leading to the samba (a fusion of European, African, and Cuban
music) merging into the familiar sounds of Carnival by 1917. In 1928, the Samba School surfaced as part of the Camival culture influencing the founding of Samba Parade held in the streets of
Rio, The Sambodromo was built in 1984 to house the parade. You can hear the passion of the Carnival beating during Carnival Sunday and Monday. One more element of Carnival is the balls or
dances, originated in Italy, taking on various shapes from the public Cinelandia Ball to the lavish Gala Ball. While looking and participating in all the carousing of Carnival, one cannot help but
notice the African influence on the culture. Over six million slaves came to Brazil, leaving their imprint on movement, sound, and savory fare. Many of the costumes seen at the balls and
parades include bones, feathers, and grass, reminiscent of African traditions. The presence of feathers symbolizes the strength to prevail over adversity and resistance while becoming a strong,
divine person. Listening to the musical beats of the Carnival music presents another layer of the African influence as well as the presence of an indispensable element of the celebration. Being
part of Carnival, past or present, provides an opportunity for all to celebrate together - young, old, rich, poor. In ancient times, the Satumalia Gala included a chance for the masters and slaves
to trade clothes and positions, attempting to understand each other's life and, for a day, come together as equals. Currently, the joining of people is witnessed in the neighborhood parades,
public balls, and Samba Schools. Let the travel professionals at AR Tourism arrange the perfect vacation for you, while saving you money and eliminating the inconvenience of handling overseas
arrangements. AR Tourism - Brazil Vacation Travel Agency > > History of The Carnaval Home Carnival History of Carnival