HASSAN FATHY (1900-1989) HASSAN FATHY, the Egyptian architect and poet, environmentalist and planner, died at his house in Cairo on November 30th, 1989. His book Construire avec le
peuple, 1972 (To Build With The People), published in 1973 as Architecture For The Poor, title given by University of Chicago Press, triggered a world following. It revealed in poignant prose, in
philosophical terms and pecuniary detail how he focussed his experience and vision on championing the human right to decent housing for all. Fathy's commitment was to his "ideal clients: the
economic untouchables," who live outside the cash economy and to "the billions throughout the world condemned to a premature death for lack of adequate shelter. Hassan Fathy is best
known for devising and promoting in arid areas the social organization of public housing built cooperatively by the owner-dwellers, with the guidance of the architect and under the supervision
of craftspeople, using local ~~ preferably free -- materials such as earth, reed, straw or stone. One third of the planet's population lives in earthen structures. Fathy's oeuvre is that of a modern
architect schooled in European curricula who took advantage of desert architecture in harmonious and climatically beneficial ways. By incorporating into his designs traditional vernacular
devices and proven methods for cooling structures, by harnessing natural energy, he practiced and taught appropriate technology in a world careening headlong toward wasteful, toxic high
energy use. Working on behalf of his dlients within strict economic limitations, he re-introduced environmentally sound techniques such as windcatches, cooling towers, the mushrabiya window
screen, interior fountains and the ventilating attributes and air-conditioning principles of the courtyard into his designs of schools, houses and entire villages. Fathy also revived a lost method of
roofing adobe buildings with domes and Nubian vaults crafted by hand out of sundried bricks smaller in size than wall adobe bricks. All these elements offered solidity, beauty, cultural and
spiritual harmony costing far less than conventional structures of concrete, corrugated steel and other industrial materials which require mechanical temperature controls. Simone Swan, New
York 1990