Women's Health _A fracture is a break in a bone. There are two bones in your forearm: A forearm fracture usually occurs from: The symptoms are pain, swelling, and tenderness at the site of
injury. You may not be able to move your arm normally. Your health care provider will examine your forearm and look for tenderness. An x-ray of your arm will show the fracture. Call your
health care provider if: Most forearm fractures are caused by accidents that you cannot easily prevent. What is a forearm fracture? the radius (on the thumb side of your arm) the ulna (on the
little-finger side of your arm). How does it occur? a fall onto an outstretched arm or hand a direct blow to the arm. What are the symptoms? How is it diagnosed? How is it treated? If the
broken bone is crooked, your health care provider will straighten it. You will be given some medicine first so the straightening is not too painful. Some fractures that cannot be straightened, or
that are broken into many pieces, may need to have surgery. You may be given a splint for your arm for a few days until the swelling begins to go down. Then your arm will be put in a cast for
4 to 8 weeks. Your health care provider may prescribe anti-inflammatory medicines or other pain medicines. You should elevate your arm on a pillow or the back of a chair as often as possible
for the first 2 to 3 days. This will help control pain and swelling. You may place ice packs over the cast for 20 to 30 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for the first 2 to 3 days. Take care not to get
your cast wet if it is a plaster cast. When should I call my health care provider? Your pain is getting worse instead of better. You feel that your cast is too tight and you have swelling that
doesn't get better when you elevate your injury. How can I prevent a forearm fracture? Disclaimer: This content is reviewed periodically and is subject to change as new health information
becomes available. The information provided is intended to be informative and educational and is not a replacement for professional medical evaluation, advice, diagnosis or treatment by a
healthcare professional. HIA File BJM3260F.HTM Release 9.0/2006. Copyright  2006 McKesson Corporation and/or one of its subdiaries. All Rights Reserved.