The New Century Club Vasily Kandinsky. Landscape with Two Poplars, 1912. Arthur Jerome Eddy Memorial Collection The New Century Club of the Art Institute of Chicago honors those friends
of the museum who have established a gift of $25,000 or more through a bequest, trust arrangement, or other estate-plan provision. David W. Irwin, a founding trustee, made the first bequest
to the Art Institute more than 100 years ago. He and other farsighted Chicagoans knew that the young institution and its collection would grow and prosper only if it were financially
secureonly if they and future members helped ensure its well-being by contributing funds as well as art. In the new century, others took up the challenge. The will of Joseph Winterbotham
enabled the Art Institute to begin a collection of European art in 1921. The bequest of Kate Sturges Buckingham in 1937 provided for the care of Asian and European art that she and her
siblings had given to the Art Institute. The bequest of Charles H. and Mary Worcester in 1947 not only included a collection of European paintings but also funds to enhance the collection. Each
of these gifts helped to strengthen the Art Institute's endowment and ensure the permanence of its collection. Each continues to provide countless generations with the opportunity to view and
appreciate the great art of this country and of the world. In recent years the estates of Margaret Chamales, Joanne Toor Cummings, and Alice Sharp have each in their own way added
substantial growth to programs both at the school and the museum through the endowment. As a member of the New Century Club, you can continue this important tradition and play a
significant role in the future of the Art Institute of Chicago. Endowment fund gifts help not only to expand and maintain the collections but also to provide support in many other areas. These
include the following: curatorial administration and research museum education programs and lectures publications about the museum's collection conservation acquisitions for the Ryerson
and Burnham Libraries care of museum galleries visits by scholars and artists to the School of Art Institute Donors may specify areas of particular interest they wish to assist or may simply
contribute to the general endowment to help defray all expenses. Privileges of Membership to the New Century Club Members of the New Century Club are invited annually to at least two
special Art Institute events, such as reception and viewing of a new exhibition, a reception and gallery lecture, or a behind-the-scenes visit to one of the departments of the museum. Unless
requested otherwise, members names are listed in the annual report of the Art Institute of Chicago. An Invitation You are invited to join the New Century Club. To do so, please complete the
form below. The New Century Club of the Art Institute of Chicago I/We accept with pleasure membership to the New Century Club and qualify by having arranged a future gift of $25,000 or
more to the Art Institute through a will or living trust charitable remainder trust, gift annuity, or lead trust. work of art that the Art institute has agreed to accept and that has been
professionally appraised. I/We have made other estate-plan provissions for the Art Institute, noted below: Name*