13 Places To Watch TV Online for Free _If you donDit have cable at home or if you just want to watch TV and movies while your using your PC, then you should check out the list below which
lists the best free online TV services IDive discovered. There are a few of online Tv: 13 Places To Watch TV Online for Free Advantages * - An IP-based platform also allows significant
opportunities to make the TV viewing experience more interactive and personalized. * - permits a customer to browse an online movie catalogue, to watch trailers and to select the movie he
wants to watch. * - Another advantage of an IP-based network is the opportunity for integration and convergence. Converged services implies interaction of existing services in a seamless
manner to create new value added services. One good example is On-Screen Caller ID, getting Caller ID on your TV and the ability to handle it (send it to voice mail, etc)Interactivity Video on
Demand (VoD) Converged Services Limitations: Because IPTV is based on the Internet Protocol, it is sensitive to if the IPTV connection is not fast enough.packet loss and delays (Lists
thousands of TV links, Movie links, and Live TV channels online.)Heres the a list of 13 Places To Watch TV For Free Online: 1. Free Tv (completely free altemative to cable television that lets,
you watch tv channels and TV shows online using just your browser.)2. FreeTube (Over 2,000+ TV shows or 90,000+ episodes, including all the big shows like Lost, Prison Break, etc)3. Tape it
of the Internet (More then 300 real TV channels to choose from including NBC, ABC, ESPN, BBC1 and many more, organized in categories and ranked by the site users)4. Streamic (A
directory that amalgamates the most popular tv shows, cartoon & anime series.)5. TVlinks (Sports, movies - all in one please. Just choose a show from the list of available channels)6.
PpStream (Watch popular shows like Lost, Desperate Housewives, Alias etc online)7. ABC (Over 700 episodes of popular shows such as 24, Buffy, Desperate Housewives, Family Guy. Shows
can be downloaded)8. PeekVid (a popular service for watching many foreign channels)9. PPlive (All the latest TV shows as they aired including 24, Smallville, Prison Break, Lost etc)10.
TV-Video (TVU is a nifty little player that offers users a variety of channels that can be used to watch normal TV or Sport. US channels are also found on this player.)11. TVU Player Update:
(it's a free TV portal where you can watch more than 250 online TV channels. Some of them have to be good.)12. Chooseandwatch (Channel King provides the best selection of free Intemet
TV channels. Free broadband TV channels from around the world enable you to watch TV from anywhere with broadband. )13. Channelking Im not superstitious but I'll let you finish up my list
with your favorite TV portals.