Sports Rehabilitation Therapy (Soft Tissue Release) Sports Rehabilitation Therapy - Soft Tissue Release ( STR) is a unique injury treatment technique for soft tissue dsyfunction that can
provide relief from chronic or acute pain in as little as one session. At the heart of STR is a specific compression and precise extension. This coordinated movement is administered in a
systematic manner resulting in a profound opening effect on all micro trauma and scar tissue. Muscle memory is engaged and relief from pain starts immediately. Who needs STR? including
Piriformis Syndrome and the referred problems of Quadratus Lumborum - the two most overlooked, insidious perpetrators of low back painChronic low back pain: including Levator Scapular,
Scalenes, and SCM, pain "between the shoulder blades", and repetitive use problems involving Rhomboids, mid and upper trapsWhiplash injuries: including plantar fascitis, heel pain, shin
splints, knee pain, hamstring, quad, and IT band problems, and adductor and groin injuries - carpal tunnel pain and other repetitive use injuries such as tennis elbow, rotator cuff, and frozen
shoulder problemsSports injuries: Fibromyalgia and Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Along with STR therapy, motivated clients are given homework to do, i.e., (AIS). Assuredly, soreness, swelling,
and pain relate to a loss of tissue movement. So that the muscles, fascia (connective tissue), and joints need to maintain maximum movement to help prevent postural changes, disease, and
injury. A decrease in flexibility normally accompanies aging and is caused by a failure to maintain movement through a complete range of motion. The primary determinants of flexibility are the
fascia and musculature surrounding a specific joint. If the muscles and tendons are required to elongate on a regular basis, the joint will maintain a normal level of flexibility. Active Isolated
Stretching AIS is recommended to willing clients (when the client wants to begin learning them). AIS focuses on specific muscles in the body that exist in a state of contraction. Immediately
and over time the client is able to bring contracted muscles to a state of resting length, thus increasing circulation to and rejuvination of cells and tissues that once had done nothing but
register pain and discomfort. 6810 Tilden Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20852-4501 301-468-3962 Fax: 301-984-0218 Cell: 240-423-3438