Print This winter, the Academy of American Poets launched a search for America biggest poetry fans: people who demonstrate a passion for poetry that goes beyond the usual. After receiving
hundreds of provocative entries from fans across the country, these entries surpassed our wildest expectations. Walt Whitman Poetfan Ashfield, MassachusettsJan Freeman Beginning in 1993,
Istarted having a celebration every July 4th at 10 a.m.: "Bagels and Walt." Sometimes the gatherings have 3 people, and sometimes there have been more than 40. Contemporary Poetfans
St. James, New YorkMichael A. Mart Together with my wife, Mary, I ran an antiquarian bookshop on Long Island, New York for 34 years. . . . We did what we could to carry books of local poets,
even though we were not a shop selling new books. . . Cummings Poetfan Cambridge, MassachusettsJeff Urban As a physical chemist, I found Cummings's poems to be precious puzzles,
euphonous and layered in complexity. . . I often tumed to the playful mind of E. E. Cummings for a rest. Soothing, epigrammatic, quirky, and fun. A wonderful balm for my aching brain. Pablo
Neruda Poetfans Miami Dade College Miami, FloridaAlberto Meza and his students I have made a commitment to bring Neruda's imagery in the classroom. In fact, my students have worked on
() in woodcuts and etchings. Veinte poemas de amor y una cancion desesperadaTwenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair Hear selections from an interview with this Poetfan. W. B. Yeats
Poetfans Chicago, IllinoisCaitlin Montanye Parrish and Brina Rodin I work as a caregiver. I've made a friend working with dementia patients. A former poet, Brina is a 94-year-old woman. My
employers believed we would have a lot to talk about. Hear selections from an interview with this Poetfan. Emily Dickinson Poetfans ELS Language Centers Santa Monica, CaliforniaSharyn
Moore and her students Finding poetry and a poet for college-bound international students is a pedagogical puzzle. For an elective course entitled "Here's Hollywood," idiom, metaphor and new
vocabulary lead to discussion, as well as the realization, "I can understand poetry, in English!" View the complete entry > Though the contest has officially ended, we're always on the lookout
for individuals or groups who have an uncanny interest or investment in poetry.Are you a poet's biggest fan? Send an email to and tell us about your devotion to a poetor poetry in general
You may just find yourself among the Poetfans already featured on Poets.org. poetfan@poets.org