Super Joints Rated 10 out of 10 The "Super Joints" by Pavel Tsatsouline was excellent. After 30 years of practicing and teaching martial arts (Uechi/Shohei Ryu, and Ju Jitsu), and the natural
"break down" of the joints with age, the "Super Joints" has helped to restore the flexibility and strength of my joints especially an arthritic shoulder. I have incorporated the "Super Joints" into
my Russian kettlebell and functional training workouts. Dr. Dan Rinchuse, DMD, MS, MDS, PhD 6th Degree Black Belt-Uechi/Shohei Ryu 2n Degree Black Belt - Ju Jitsu - Greensburg, PADr. Dan
Rinchuse, DMD, MS, MDS, PhD Lubricate you Joints... Like this... Observe... Enjoy! Rated 10 out of 10 I enjoyed this video, as well as the other videos that Pavel presents. Although they
seem short in length, Pavel shows you the essentials. Sometimes what is most important such as joint conditioning, is often the most basic in nature. Do the recommended exercises and get
Pavelized!!! Thats an Order!!! And watch Rambo III. Its required viewing!!! - Ramstein Air Base, GermanyBenjamin Ramos Pavel is the Funniest Guy! Rated 8 out of 10 Not only were these
exercises great for me (a non body builder/non special forces person), but Pavel gave me quite a few laughs. I have a dry sense of humor, and some of my friends thought he was down-right
cheezy, but I found it enjoyable. As for the purpose of the DVD, it seems to be working well for my creaky joints, but they are not completely fixed after two weeks. I have every confidence
they will be fixed soon! - CO, USAAmy Joints of a teen again... Rated 10 out of 10 At 37 years of age, my joints had already been cracking and hurting in the morning. I sustained an injury
parachuting in the Air Force in 1989 and since, have had many back pains. I ordered Super Joints figuring it would be good, as all of Pavel's dvd's and books have been excellent. The first day T
went through the dvd and did all the joint mobility drills. I felt better that day and over the course of the following week noticed that in the morning, my back wasn't as stiff and my elbows
didn't hurt. I would highly recommend this dvd to anyone that cares about their joints. - NYJim Lavelle Easy and awesome Rated 10 out of 10 Easy-to-do exercises that really do loosen
things up. I'm 52, so it takes some time to kick in, but it works!!! I've been recommending it highly to everyone I know. - MarylandDave Yes! I am ready to take my strength, energy and
health to undreamt-of new heights thanks to . I want to order and understand that I am ordering with ZERO RISK because comes with a 100% satisfaction guarantee for one full year!Super
Joints Super Joints NOW Super Joints Perfect for martial artists Rated 10 out of 10 I now stretch 3 times a week and I follow this dvd. It's perfect for martial artists who are over 30 like
myself, I started Capoeira at age 31 and with all the movements we do, I needed a good stretching dvd that was modified for older joints and this is the one. - California. Washington Great
for old, creaking joints--or young ones Rated 10 out of 10 As a 54 year old who just refuses to give up on martial arts, lifting and the entire lifestyle, this was really a great addition to my
"keep the parts moving" arsenal. Some of these movements I recognized from Yoga, but many were at least a new twist (no pun intended) on things that have added quite a bit to my
stretching and joint maitenence efforts. I very strongly recommend it. - Sayville, NYSteve Corso (scors50) Superjoints DVD is perfect for the visual learner Rated 10 out of 10 I've been doing
"Superjoints" for over a year now, and no other component of Pavel's training strategies has had a stronger impact on my progress! Although I prefer books over videos, my father, who needs
to improve his joint mobility in the worst way, is more of a visual learner. Not only did the video get him started on the program, but I also picked up a few things that I had sort of missed in
the book. The material is presented in Pavel's usual direct and straight-to-the-point style. No bells or whistles, just concise instructions and demonstrations. This video is an excellent resource!!
 - Mayfield, NY USAJoseph Reynolds Comrade...Enjoy Rated 8 out of 10 Super Joints is a DVD for alll levels of ability and experience. This, I feel is one of its greatest strengths. The format is
appropriate therefore, with two separate chapters. The less experienced athlete will benefit most from Chapter One while the more experienced athlete will be challenged by Chapter Two. I am
personally fascinated by Pavel's unique, individual and quirkily humourous presentation but some might find him...strange. His demonstrations of the movements are outstanding and he
performs even the most basic streach with amplitude. Customers who buy this DVD will, I think already be converted to the importance of streaching but what they might not be aware off are
the intricacies of method and performance offered by Pavel. I look forward to continued use of this DVD as I progress through the stages of development shown. - Melbourne, AustraliaDorn
Jenkins DON'T BE A FOOL Rated 10 out of 10 There are two reasons for not doing Super Joints #1 you don't know about it. #2 You are a dam FOOL. I'm 49 and have had knee trouble all my
life. I have done those big squats in my 20's and 30's (500Ib+). I gave up squating at 39 and for the last 9 years I suffered with aching knees and was afraid to squat. I have been doing Super
Joints for the last 6 months (have not missed a day). No more pain no discomfort. This is my second copy. I love the way it makes all my joints feel. Thanks Pavel. - cedar point , NCScott G
Yes! I am ready to take my strength, energy and health to undreamt-of new heights thanks to . I want to order and understand that I am ordering with ZERO RISK because comes with a 100%
satisfaction guarantee for one full year!Super Joints Super Joints NOW Super Joints Pavel; Not so dis-jointed Rated 9 out of 10 The only reason it didn't get a 10 is because I would like to
know the why and how it works,just a little more in depth. The over all excersizes that should be done seemed to be very thorough. - St. Paul, MN USAJoe T Excellent video Rated 10 out of
10 Super joints has been the perfect compliment to my kettlebell training. Residual tensions I developed over the last year of strength training have disappeared after my first day using SJ.
The wind mill, and belly dancing alone were worth the price of the video. I also enjoyed the simple and precise explanations of the exercises. Pavel is truly a great fitness teacher. - Madison,
MS USAShane Grubbs Detailed, Amazing, Fun, Tough, Invigorating... Rated 10 out of 10 Pavel is ripped, flexible, funny, strong, and knows his stuff. I hurt my right shoulder, the AC joint,
awhile back, and have been reluctant to lift weights and exercise, due to a slight pain. I got Super Joints hoping it would help--many customer reviews reported that it aided in rehabilitating
their injuries. Even though it has only been a week of me doing the exercises, I am happy to say that is HAS helped. I'm not healed yet (it will take more than stretching; strengthing is next),
but my joints all feel looser and more lubricated; even my ligaments and muscles feel looser and even STRONGER. Any which way, now I'm saving up to get Pavel's other stretching DVDs and
Enter the Kettlebell! DVD, book, and kettlebell (I'm aiming to order it in the upcoming month). Along these lines, due to Pavels non-endorsing endorsment, I've also begun the Warrior
Diet/Anti-Estrogenic Diet, and it has helped clean me out from the inside as well (which I'm sure will help heal my shoulder and other ailments). No matter what, I'm now a Pavel enthusiast and
look forward to building not only my Pavel library, but also my Pavel body!!! - NYCDoron This DVD is the best of its kind. Rated 10 out of 10 I have researched a lot of DVD's and the ones
that keep your joints healty are few and far between. (I am a 65 year old librarian/exercise video enthusiast.) In fact, I have found only two others. I very much like the two other I found, but
like Pavel's the best. It gets every joint and does it in a minimal amount of time. I am very happy I found it! - Hicksville, NY USAAnne super joints exercise Rated 10 out of 10 I saw your
product while visiting my sister this summer. I enjoyed adding this flexibility to my regular workout with dumbells. The exercises really get rid of the creekie joints, especially in the shoulders
and neck for me. - Denver, CO USABill Yes! I am ready to take my strength, energy and health to undreamt-of new heights thanks to . I want to order and understand that I am ordering with
ZERO RISK because comes with a 100% satisfaction guarantee for one full year!Super Joints Super Joints NOW Super Joints Good, solid information Rated 7 out of 10 The Super Joints DVD
provides some good, solid information about joint flexibility and strength. If you have spent any time stretching then you won't find much new in this DVD. Much of what Pavel demonstrates
(especially in Chapter 1) is very similar to the stretches in QiGong Recharge. Chapter 2 coveres strength stretches. While Pavel goes over some very good stretches, I wish they had been
presented in a coherent, sequential order. It seemed more like Pavel would demonstrate a stretch, and then would suddenly remember another stretch for another part of the body. There didn't
seem to be a beginning, middle, and end, If there were a PDF document included as bonus material for this DVD that gave some suggested stretch routines I'd give the DVD a higher score. -
Reno, NVMargie Rick Super Joints dvd Rated 8 out of 10 Maybe a follow along format would be better. Also way too short, Pavel can put much more info and footage on his dvds for the price.
@ - Marylandismael not what i expected Rated 2 out of 10 this is basic information that if you are an athelete already you should know. not what i have grown to expect from pavel. i have
used many other products from dragon door and have liked all of them, except this one. - Portsmouth, VA USATommy Scientific methods Rated 10 out of 10 It was much time I did shoulder
dislocate with a broomstick with the result my minimum distance between hands was 90 cm.,after reading this book I started doing this exercise in the correct way and in 6 months I arrived at
75 cm.Consequence now I can duble snatch with kettlebells and back jerk with barrel easyer - ItalyAlberto Stretching with Pavel Rated 10 out of 10 I'm really impressed with this DVD.I have
shoulder problems,an also a very tender elbow joint, so tender,that I can't even do any tricep's exercises for the past 2-3 months.Now, my elbow has felt much better,even the swelling has
gone down,an it feels great.Even my shoulders feel better,an I look forward to my doing my stretching everyday! Hats off to Pavel as always,he is very good at what he does.I have most of his,
books,an enjoy his news letters too!! Now I can get back into working out with the kettlebells, because my elbow is feeling better. - Rochester NYRenny Hammond Jr Yes! I am ready to take
my strength, energy and health to undreamt-of new heights thanks to . I want to order and understand that I am ordering with ZERO RISK because comes with a 100% satisfaction guarantee
for one full year!Super Joints Super Joints NOW Super Joints Great Guide! (A little difficult.) Rated 9 out of 10 The DVD is a very good instructional tool. Some moves may be hard to follow. -
Brooklyn, NYScott Unique and effective approach to flexibility Rated 8 out of 10 Pavel is fascinating and sexy! I like to just watch him and then I start doing his flexibility exercises. I bought it
for my husband but I love it. I feel great after his workout. It is fast, different, and effective. I run, olympic lift, and play tennis. This is helping to keep me injury free. I like it much better than
yoga. Comrades, observe this video! - Minneapolis, Mn USADebbie Back Pain Relief at last Rated 8 out of 10 I really enjoyed the "Super Joints" DVD. I have suffered from chronic low back
pain for years without relief. Putting the exercises into my daily rountine has dramatically reduced my back pain and provided some long overdue relief from near constant pain. - Los Gatos,
CaliforniaMark Harrell Disappeamce of 25 years of shoulder impingement pain! Rated 9 out of 10 For 25 years, I have been unable to do any kind of chest press because of an impingement in
my left shoulder, which always led to pain the day after doing any kind of pressing. 3 weeks of daily practicing of all the shoulder joint mobility drills in Super Joints (along with careful
observation of healthy shoulder pressing techniques learned on the DragonDoor fitness forum) ... and I was able to bench 5X5 55lb dumbbells last week totally pain free! Pain free after 25
years is truly great stuff. I'd love to achieve the same type of hip mobility improvements. - Vancouver, B.C.TooSteep Not his best Rated 5 out of 10 I own several outstanding Pavel products,
but this one is not one of them. Although it is not without value for most people, for an athletic person it is redundant and too basic. For someone just starting a lifestyle change or trying to
achieve flexibility, it would fill in knowledge gaps. - Altamonte Springs, FLJose Amram Yes! I am ready to take my strength, energy and health to undreamt-of new heights thanks to . I want
to order and understand that I am ordering with ZERO RISK because comes with 2 100% satisfaction guarantee for one full year!Super Joints Super Joints NOW Super Joints SUPER JOINTS,
SUPER EFFECTIVE Rated 10 out of 10 I bought this dvd after purchasing Pavel's Resilient dvd and have since combined exercises from both to turn back the clock on my body. I have been
powerlifting for 15 years and Kettlebelling seriously for almost 2 years and have racked up enough injuries, aches and pains to last a lifetime. After using Super Joints for about 2 weeks, the
pain that the dvd Resilient didn't take away, Super Joints did. Even though Pavel recommends doing a rep for every year you have lived to get full benefits, i have received tremendous results
doing 10-20 reps (not quite the prescribed number but never the less still very effective). Even though i do use exercises from both dvds, Super Joints will solve most, if not all those "pains in
the necks" (not human ones, unfortanely) you have experienced. I have recommended this to a friend of mine to send to his 70 year old father and results have been positive. How do i spell
relief? SUPER-JOINTS! - Mansfield, Texas- United StatesPatrick (phil) Workman, RKC Rated 10 out of 10 just like pavels super joints book the video is a must in my opinion.pavel does an
amazing job showing the right movments and his personal presence is motivating.after doing super joints for a few days i was quik to realize that this is somthing that i will do for life.and
anyone who wants to feel great throghout the day would agree with me.ive learned alot of things about my body and the importance of maintaning my often neglected joints.i learned the
amazing pink panther technique wich was so easy to learn ,im amazed this technique was never showed to me by anybody before.i recomend super joints to everyone. our bodys are neglected
as it is these days and this is one way to improve our lives indeed!!!!thanks pavel for shining some light my way. max. - richmond hill, Ontario Canadamax andranov Email Address: