Print this page Email this page All About Diabetes Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce or properly use insulin. Insulin is a hormone that is needed to convert sugar,
starches and other food into energy needed for daily life. The cause of diabetes continues to be a mystery, although both genetics and environmental factors such as obesity and lack of exercise
appear to play roles. There are 23.6 million children and adults in the United States, or 7.8% of the population, who have diabetes. While an estimated 17.9 million have been diagnosed with
diabetes, unfortunately, 5.7 million people (or nearly one quarter) are unaware that they have the disease. In order to determine whether or not a patient has pre-diabetes or diabetes, health
care providers conduct a Fasting Plasma Glucose Test (FPG) or an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT). Either test can be used to diagnose pre-diabetes or diabetes. The American Diabetes
Association recommends the FPG because it is easier, faster, and less expensive to perform. With the FPG test, a fasting blood glucose level between 100 and 125 mg/di signals pre-diabetes. A
person with a fasting blood glucose level of 126 mg/dl or higher has diabetes. In the OGTT test, a person's blood glucose level is measured after a fast and two hours after drinking a
glucose-rich beverage. If the two-hour blood glucose level is between 140 and 199 mg/dl, the person tested has pre-diabetes. If the two-hour blood glucose level is at 200 mg/dl or higher, the
person tested has diabetes. This area of our Web site can help ease your fears and teach you more about living with diabetes or caring for someone with diabetes, and connect you with others
affected by diabetes who will listen and share their own experiences. Recently Diagnosed? Visit the area of diabetes.org Recently Diagnosed Major Types of Diabetes Results from the body's
failure to produce insulin, the hormone that "unlocks" the cells of the body, allowing glucose to enter and fuel them, It is estimated that 5-10% of Americans who are diagnosed with diabetes
have type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes Results from insulin resistance (a condition in which the body fails to properly use insulin), combined with relative insulin deficiency. Most Americans who
are diagnosed with diabetes have type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes Immediately after pregnancy, 5% to 10% of women with gestational diabetes are found to have diabetes, usually, type 2.
Gestational diabetes Pre-diabetes is a condition that occurs when a person's blood glucose levels are higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. There are 57
million Americans who have pre-diabetes, in addition to the 23.6 million with diabetes. Pre-diabetes Additional Information You or someone you love has just been diagnosed with diabetes --
chances are you have 2 million questions running through your head. This area of our Web site can help ease your fears and teach you more about living with diabetes or caring for someon
with diabetes, and connect you with others affected by diabetes who will listen and share their own experiences. Recently Diagnosed Take the first steps toward better diabetes care by visiting
the Diabetes Learning Center -- an area for people who have been recently diagnosed with diabetes, or those needing basic information. Diabetes Learning Center Often diabetes goes
undiagnosed because many of its symptoms seem so harmless. Learn what they are in this section. Diabetes Symptoms The has been completely revised to bring you all the information you
need to live an active, healthy life with diabetes. Now in its fourth edition, this guide gives you information on the best self-care techniques and the latest medical advances. If you have
diabetes, this guide will answer all your questions. For more books on healthy living, click . Further Reading... here 23.6 million Americans have diabetes -- nearly one in four does not know
it! Take our diabetes risk test to see if you are at risk for having diabetes. Diabetes is more common in African Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
Diabetes Risk Test Find the truth about some of the most common myths about diabetes. Diabetes Myths With so many people affected by diabetes, the American Diabetes Association has
compiled statistics on the impact of diabetes and its complications. We have statistics listed by population, complication, and economic impact. Diabetes Statistics You've probably wondered
how you got diabetes. You may worry that your children will get it too. Unlike some traits, diabetes does not seem to be inherited in a simple pattern. Yet clearly, some people are born more
likely to get diabetes than others. The Genetics of Diabetes No matter what kind of diabetes you have, it affects many parts of your life. You can get help from health professionals trained to
focus on different areas, from head to toe. A health care team helps you use the health care system to its fullest. So whom do you need on your team? Find out here. Who's on your health care
team? Visit our bookstore for a variety of cookbooks, meal planners, self-care guides and other educational materials to assist you in managing diabetes. Books & Magazines