close Product Detail: The user-friendly design includes illuminated dials, a star chart light and a hinged lens cover that's impossible to lose! The aluminum tripod extends to a comfortable
viewing height of 55", then collapses to fit in the lightweight, padded shoulder bag. Throw it over your shoulder and start exploring while you discover the mysteries of the universe! Winner
of the Oppenheim Toy Portfolio Platinum Seal Award, the National Parenting Center Seal Of Approval and the Parents Choice Approved Award. Bring the wonders of nature up close with this
70mm, refracting, short barrel telescope. Designed to be user-friendly for kids and adults alike, it's ideal for a range of interests, from stargazing to nature watching. To create an affordable but
hard-working design, we've eliminated unnecessary bells and whistles and focused on the essentials, like precision-ground glass lenses and Kellner eyepieces in two sizes. We've even included
an erecting prism. Key features: Wide, 70mm aperture allows crystal-clear viewing of moon craters, Saturn's rings, even distant quasars and nebulae Altazimuth mount for smooth, precise
motion Precision-ground glass lenses with magnesium fluoride anti-reflective coating for superior visual clarity 1.25" Kellner eyepieces included (9mm and 25mm) Accepts other
manufacturers' 1.25" eyepieces for limitless options 45-degree erecting prism ensures objects always appear right side up Die-cast and extruded aluminum tripod extends to 55" viewing
height and comes with anti-slip rubber feet Padded, lightweight shoulder bag with "sling" style strap for comfort and portability Illuminated adjustment dials, azimuth dial and liquid bubble
level Red night-vision map light won't dilate eyes Adjustable, soft rubber eyepieces Integrated, flip-down lens caps 2 month manufacturer's warranty Warning: Never look directly at the sun
or a solar eclipse. Doing this, even for a brief moment, can cause permanent damage to your eyes. Safety warning: This product contains small parts that may present a choking hazard for
young children.