Guest_LAW_* Mar 16 2008, 11:26 AM I am sick of all the racial bantering. It seems the Democratic Party has been focusing on the forces of division rather than the forces of unity. Last week,
we had Geraldine Ferraro telling the Daily Breeze in Torrance that "If Obama was a white man, he would not be in this position. And if he was a woman, he would not be in this position. He
happens to be very lucky to be who he is. And the country is caught up in the concept. This week we have Pastor Jeremiah Wright of the United Church of Christ telling his congregation
"Barack knows what it means to be a black man living in a country and a culture that is controlled by rich white people. Hillary can never know that. Hillary ain't never been called a
derogatory term used to refer to black people**." This type of rhetoric in political campaigns is used to influence voters. A crafter of racism does care about the good of our country. A crafter
of racism does this only to maintain power. They make the mistake of characterizing American voters similar to the Roman mob rather than as individual citizens of a great Republic. The
inconvenient truth is both the Clinton and Obama camps are wrong in what they are doing. Both groups are guilty of the same sin. Both groups are stoking the fire of racism between blacks
and whites. The party of the people may have lost the Presidency with this divisive theater. DemocratsHateTheUS Mar 18 2008, 02:38 AM Jeremiah Wright - Obama's mentor - Hate speech
The Obama campaign said in a statement, "Senator Obama is proud of his pastor and his church." -Mr. Wright, who has long prided himself on criticizing the establishment, said he knew that
he may not play well in Mr. Obama's audition for the ultimate establishment job. "If Barack gets past the primary, he might have to publicly distance himself from me," Mr. Wright said with a
shrug. "I said it to Barack personally, and he said yeah, that might have to happen." -"If you want to understand where Barack gets his feeling and rhetoric from," says the Rev. Jim Wallis, a
leader of the religious left, "just look at Jeremiah Wright." -Obama has said valuing Wright's "day-to-day political advice" -In 2006 Obama & wife gave $60,307 to charity and the largest single
amount of that was to Trinity United Church of Christ for $22,500