About Volvo Meet Volvo If you ever have been wondering why an offshore round-the-world sailing race is named after a brand that focuses on engine-powered means of transport and
construction& well, hereCIs our answer: The race tells an inspiring story about dedicated individuals and teams who with passion, energy and endurance, climb the Mount Everest of sailing
The Volvo Ocean Race also is one of the very few truly global sports events - taking place on 4 different continents, involving multi-national, multi-cultural teams and support teams. In short, it
perfectly mirrors the world we live in at Volvo every day. At Volvo, we are in the businesses of transport Oi the transport of people, construction material and goods. Transport plays a crucial
role in the development of a society and its economy. However, we also know that transport Cl and we with it 0 is part of a problem that is one of the major challenges of our times: Energy
consumption and its effect on our planetCIs climate. Ever since its inception in 1927, Volvo has been sensitive to its environment, conscious that if the industry is to be part of the problems,
there is an obligation to be part of the solution. Therefore, at Volvo, we have for decades now also been in the business of building cars and vehides with greater energy efficiency and less
environmental impact - whether on the factory floor, on the roads, the construction sites, the seas and the skies of the world, VolvoCs three core values 0 Quality, Safety and Environmental
Care are all intertwined, and volvo is dedicated to the quality of the air that we breathe, the safety of our surroundings, the protection of the environment. That is one of the reasons why we
like sailing! The Volvo brand is shared between Volvo Group and Volvo Cars 0) welcome to explore our worlds! Volvo Cars Read full story Volvo Group Under the umbrella of Volvo Group,
more industrial transport machinery is made: Trucks, Buses, Construction equipment, as well as engines for aircraft, industry and 1 boats! In fact, we are proud to motor the Volvo Open 70s