First American shots fired in World War II From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed.needs additional for . citations
verification improve this article reliable references challenged (April 2008) While debate over the existed for some time, specifically concerning the , it is now generally accepted that the first
American (and the first American-caused) casualties actually occurred on , when the attacked and sank a Japanese near the entrance to prior to the commencement of the Japanese air attack
upon Pearl Harbor, which caused the to become directly involved in . As a result of the attack on Pearl Harbor, , America declared war on Japan on , and upon Germany two days later First
American shots fired in World War II Attack on Pearl Harbor December 7 1941 USS Ward midget submarine Pearl Harbor United States World War II Hawaii December 8 1941 The USS made
sonar contact with what turned out to be a midget submarine and sank it, all shortly before the Japanese air attack began. As this occurred prior to the air attack, the other contenders could
not have been the first.Ward Some have argued that the deliberate attack on the United States gunboat in 1937 on a river in China by the Japanese in the might qualify. However, World War II
is generally considered to not have begun until invaded on , . On the other hand, Japan had been involved in military actions in since 1931, when it first attacked , later making a full scale
attack upon . USS Panay Panay incident Germany Poland September 1 1939 China Manchuria China The first time Americans engaged in hostile action after , was on , , when the destroyer
attacked a German U-boat that had just sunk a Dutch freighter. The was picking up survivors of the freighter when it detected the U-boat preparing to attack. The attacked with depth charges
and drove off the U-boat. There were no casualties onboard the or the U-boat. September 1 1939 April 10 1941 USS Niblack NiblackNiblackNiblack One could argue that either the casualties
inflicted on by on , or the sinking of the by on , might be considered the first American losses of . However, the United States were not directly involved in the war yet, nor did this cause them
to declare war. An interesting quirk of history, the was in the same convoy as the when the was sunk. USS Kearny U-boat U-568 October 17 1941 USS Reuben James U-552 October 31 1941
World War IT NiblackReuben JamesReuben James The first overt, pre-planned offensive action by Americans in WWII came in January 1942 when the attacked Japanese bases in the . aircraft
carrier USS Enterprise Marshall Islands [] edit Contenders This is a list of those once considered deserving of this distinction. , an sailor. He took control of an unattended and used it in
defense of Pearl Harbor. He was awarded the . Doris Miller African-American machine gun Navy Cross _, a Sailor on the deck of the , , when the attack began. After witnessing a plane torpedo
the nearby , he fired upon the plane with his sidearm. Bob Warnock submarine USS Cachalot (SS-170) Japanese USS Pennsylvania (BB-38)