Links Queens Museum of Art Terrazzo Map restoration exhibit- Recently, the University of Pennsylvania has undergone a project to restore some of the Terrazzo panels of the Texaco Map.
These are the centerpiece of a major exhibit running through May at the Museum. Check out the awesome website the museum created just for this event!

http://www. thereallybigmap.com/exhibit/intro.html NYWF64.Com-Created by Bill Young, co-author of "Images of America, the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair", this amazing site is the
definitive source on the web for anything related to the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair. A Must-see for any fair enthusiast! http://www.nywf64.com/index.htm WORLD'S FAIR
PHOTOS-Created by Bill Cotter, co-author of "Images of America, the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair". The single most collection of color images from the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair is
right here, along with collections from 11 other World Expositions, from the 1939-1940 New York World's Fair all the way to Expo'86 in Vancouver, and such classics as Pallisades Amusement
Park, Rockaway Playland, Freedomland, Disneyland and Walt Disney World! AND, the best part of it is you can purchase any of these collections on CD and take them with you wherever you go!
The above mentioned "Images of America" book can also be purchased at this site and is an excellent read, a must for any Fair collector!amazing_http://www.worldsfairphotos.com/ New York
1964-1965 World's Fair-Created by historian Jeffrey Stanton, this site is also a very good source of information, and has an interactive version of the official map of the 1964 New York World's
Fair. http://www.westland.net/ny64fair/ Welcome to Carousel Park!-Created by World's Fair enthusiast/collector Mitch Silverstein. One interesting aspect of World's Fair history is the legacies
these fairs leave behind. The centerpiece of this remarkable website features the stories of the two carousels which appeared at the World's Fair at Carousel Park and the Belgian Village. One
of them still operates at Flushing Meadows-Corona park today, and arrived at the 1964 Fair already being a legacy of Coney Island's golden age from the tum of the 20th century. Also featured
on the site are World's Fair construction site maps, games, and an amazing peek into the site host's extensive collection of World's Fair memorabilia. Check it out! http://64nywf65.20m.com/
Peace Through Understanding- The forum for all thingsDefinitive related to the World's Fairs!Originally a forum for the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair, this popular web forum has branched
out to include of the major International Expositions throughout the last 150 years. Many many photos and links are added daily. Be sure to check it out!all