learn more Cartilage is a type of dense . It is composed of ous fibers and/or fibers, and cells called s, all of which are embedded in a firm gel-like ground substance called the matrix. Cartilage
is avascular (contains no blood vessels) and s are diffused through the matrix. Cartilage serves several functions, including providing a framework upon which bone deposition can begin and
supplying smooth surfaces for the movement of articulating bones. Cartilage is found in many places in the body including the joints, the , the , the , the and between intervertebral discs
There are three main types of cartilage: hyaline, elastic and fibrocartilage. It also is what s are composed of.Cartilage connective tissue collagen elastin chondrocyte nutrient rib cage ear nose
bronchial tubes tendon Composition Much like other connective tissue, cartilage is composed of cells, fibers and a matrix. During embryonic development, cartilage is enclosed in a dense
connective tissue called the which also contains the cartilage cell precursors (chondroblasts). In adults, the perichondrium is maintained everywhere, but is difficult to observe in the cartilage of
the joints due to obscuration from the type 1 collagen more prevalent in the matured skeleton. perichondrium Cells s and their precursors, known as chondroblasts, are the only cells found in
cartilage. Chondrocytes occur singly or in groups (called "cell nests") within spaces called e. Chondrocytes are responsible for the secretion and maintenance of the matrix. During slide
preparation, the chondrocyte often shrinks and appears smaller than the lacuna, but in live tissues they occupy the entire area. Chondrocyte lacuna Fibers Cartilage is composed of (type IT)
and elastic fibers. In hyaline cartilage, collagen makes up 40% of its dry weight and is arranged in cross-striated fibers, 15-45nm in diameter that do not assemble into large bundles. Elastic
cartilage also contains elastic fibers and fibrocartilage contains more collagen than hyaline cartilage. collagen type II Matrix The matrix is mainly composed of s, which are large molecules with
a protein backbone and (GAG) side chains. The main in articular cartilage is . This molecule fills all the spaces between the collagen fibres and holds water, thus plumping out the extracellular
matrix and giving articular cartilage its resistance to compression and its (ability to spring back into shape after load). The most common types of GAGs in cartilage are and , both of which are
found in aggrecan. The matrix immediately surrounding the chondrocytes is referred to as the territorial matrix, or capsule, and stains darker than the interstitial matrix. proteoglycan
glycosaminoglycan proteoglycan aggrecan resilience chondroitin sulfate keratan sulfate Types of cartilage There are three different types of cartilage, each with special characteristics adapted
to their function. Hyaline cartilage is the most abundant type of cartilage. The name hyaline is derived from the Greek word , meaning glass. This refers to the translucent matrix or ground
substance. It is avascular hyaline cartilage that is made predominantly of type II collagen. Hyaline cartilage is found lining bones in joints (articular cartilage or, commonly, gristle) and is also
present inside bones, serving as a center of or bone growth. In addition, hyaline cartilage forms most of the embryonic skeleton. Hyaline cartilage hyalos ossification Elastic cartilage (also
called yellow cartilage) is found in the of the ear and several tubes, such as the walls of the auditory () tubes and and especially in the epiglottis. Cartilage is present to keep the tubes
permanently open. Elastic cartilage is similar to hyaline cartilage but contains elastic bundles () scattered throughout the matrix. This provides a tissue which is stiff yet elastic. Elastic cartilage
pinna Eustachian larynx elastin Fibrocartilage (also called white cartilage) is a specialized type of cartilage found in areas requiring tough support or great tensile strength, such as between ,
the and other symphyses, and at sites connecting or to s. There is rarely any clear line of between fibrocartilage and the neighboring hyaline cartilage or connective tissue. The fibrocartilage
found in intervertebral disks contains more compared to hyaline. In addition to the type II collagen found in hyaline and elastic cartilage, fibrocartilage contains type I collagen that does form
fiber bundles seen under the light microscope. Fibrocartilage seems to lack a perichondrium but indeed it has perichondrium but it can not be seen due to type I collagen. When the hyaline
cartilage at the end of long bones such as the is damaged, it is often replaced with fibrocartilage, which does not withstand weight-bearing forces as well. Fibrocartilage intervertebral discs
pubic tendons ligaments bone demarcation collagen femur Growth and development Cartilage in fetal development In , most of the system is derived from the germ layer. Chondrification
(also known as chondrogenesis) is the process in which cartilage is formed from condensed tissue, which differentiates into and begins secreting the materials that form the matrix.
embryogenesis skeletal mesoderm mesenchyme chondrocytes Early in fetal development, the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this , it is called temporary. In contrast, the
cartilage in the joints remains unossified during the whole of life, and is called permanent. cartilage is afterward replaced by bone Mineralisation Adult hyaline articular cartilage is
progressively mineralised at the junction between cartilage and bone. It is then termed . A mineralisation front advances through the base of the hyaline articular cartilage at a rate dependent
on cartilage load and shear stress. Intermittent variations in the rate of advance and mineral deposition density of the mineralising front, lead to multiple tidemarks in the articular calcified
cartilage.articular calcified cartilage Adult articular calcified cartilage is penetrated by vascular buds, and new bone produced in the vascular space in a process similar to at the . A demarcates
articular calcified cartilage from subchondral bone. endochondral ossification physis cement line Growth Two types of growth can occur in cartilage: appositional and interstitial. Appositional
growth results in the increase of the diameter or thickness of the cartilage. The new cells derive from the perichondrium and occur on the surface of the cartilage model. Interstitial growth
results in an increase of cartilage mass and occurs from within. Chondrocytes undergo mitosis within their lacuna, but remain imprisoned in the matrix, which results in clusters of cells called
isogenous groups. Diseases / Medicine There are several diseases which can affect the cartilage. Chondrodystrophies are a group of diseases characterized by disturbance of growth and
subsequent of cartilage. Some common diseases affecting/involving the cartilage are listed below. ossification : The cartilage covering bones in joints (articular cartilage) is degraded, resulting
in movement limitation and pain. Arthritis : Reduced proliferation of chondrocytes in the epiphyseal plate of long bones results in a form of . Achondroplasia dwarfism : Inflammation of
cartilage in the ribs which causes chest pain Costochondritis disk: Asymmetrical compression of a disk ruptures the cartilage ring, causing tissue to herniate into the . Herniated spinal canal
The matrix of cartilage acts as a barrier, preventing the entry of or diffusion of . This property allows for the of cartilage from one individual to another without fear of tissue rejection
lymphocytes immunoglobulins transplantation techniques are being developed to generate new cartilage, using a cellular "scaffolding" material and cultured cells to grow artificial cartilage.
Bioengineering Cartilage cells can give rise to benign () tumors. Malignant are tumors of bone, not cartilage. chondroma chondrosarcomas Invertebrate cartilage Cartilage tissue can also be
found among invertebrates such as s, marine s, and s. horseshoe crab snail cephalopod See also