In 1994 the fourth incarnation of Gene Roddenberry's premiered titled . For the first few seasons, struggled to find itself. Season five became its breakout season.Star TrekStar Trek
VoyagerVoyager The storytelling for season 5 was superb. There were very few weak episodes.Stand Out Episodes The season starts out with the episode . This is one of the few season
premieres that was not a huge event or condusion. The crew is disheartened by a lengthy trip through a desolate area of black space. No stars can be seen. This black void gives the crew very
low moral. Captain Janeway has kept to herself, depressed, because of the responsibility of why Voyager is lost in the Delta Quadrant. Aliens who live in this black void need Voyager's help to
stop another species from polluting their area. This episode also marks the introduction of the holo-program "." stars as Captain Proton, with Harry Kim as his sidekick.NightTrekCaptain
ProtonTom Paris The second episode titled , begins when nanoprobes fuse with the Doctor's mobile emitter and a sudden emergence of a Borg grows and develops. instructs him in the ways of
humanity trying to keep him from joining the Borg who would want to integrate his advanced technology into the collective. DroneBorgSeven of Nine Voyager discovers species 8472 developed
an alien training ground for the infiltration of Earth with the episode . Starfleet headquarters is recreated to exact detail. Conducting a surveillance mission, Chakotay finds himself surrounded
by species 8472 posing as humans.In the Flesh The episode is the highlight of the season. Fifteen years after making a horrible mistake, ensign Kim attempts to rewrite history to save the fate
of Voyager. Kim and Chakotay make it back to Earth, but when Starfleet gave up their search for Voyager, they decide to search for a way to correct their mistake. The episode begins with an
older ensign Kim and Chakotay searching for Seven of Nine in an ice trapped Voyager. Using a stolen Borg temporal transmitter and the Delta Flyer from Starfleet, and now they can use
Seven's Borg interplexing beacon to send a new set of phase corrections back in time to the crew. Captain attempts to stop Kim from rewriting history. TimelessGeordi La Forge The two-part
Borg episode gives us the first look at Seven of Nines parents and how she was assimilated. Lured back to the collective by the Borg Queen, Voyager decides to rescue Seven using technology
that Seven's parent developed. Dark Frontier The packaging for these DVDs are very simple and well designed. The discs are housed in a plastic book-like case. The case is housed in a clear
plastic slipcase divided in two halves. Its very attractive but my casings have already cracked and broke in some areas.The DVD The DVD interface main menu screen uses four different views
of the Delta flyer for each episode on the disc. These are not as interesting as the other series DVDs.Star Trek The extras are nothing that most fans won't already know. All of the extras are
featurette-style looks behind-the-scenes of the season and the characters of the show.The Extras Season five is the best season of the series. The set is a must for fans to own and non-fans to
check out what they may have missed when the show was on. The presentation quality of the episodes is solid, and there are a nice selection of featurette-style looks behind-the-scenes to
satisfy any Trekkie.Overall Star Trek Voyager The Fifth Season of is available fromVoyager Amazon.com [II 11 III 11111111]