The Nation's Largest Residential Broadband Providers by Everything DSL DSL What's Residential Internet Service? DSL Residential Internet service defines speed and performance for the
home. It's all about sitting down at your computer, launching your browser, and surfing the Internet instantly - no signing in, no modem fuss, no numbers to dial - just high-speed internet
service that is always there. DSL Download software, videos, and MP3s in a fraction of the time it takes on a dial up connection. Plus, access news, play online games, share photos, and talk
over instant messengers. Find comfort enjoying fast always-on connection and uninterrupted service. (Digital Subscriber Line) is a service that offers a faster Internet connection than a
standard dial-up connection. technology uses existing 2-wire copper telephone witing to deliver high-speed data services to homes and businesses. DSL DSL uses the existing phone line and
does not require an additional phone line. This gives "always-on" Internet access and does not tie up the phone line. No more busy signals, no more dropped connections, no more waiting for
someone in the household to get off the phone. offers users a choice of speeds ranging from 144 Kbps to 1.SMbps. This is 2.5x to 25x times faster than a standard S6Kbps dial-up modem. DSL
DSL According to the Federal Communications Commission report of 2006, the figures for U.S. residential subscribers to broadband high-speed Internet service jumped 32.3 percent to 42.9
million lines for the year ended June 2005. This was an increase of 10.4 million lines over the 12-month period, with 5 million added during the second half of that period. Many residential web
users have already switched to broadband! Why don't you consider a fast broadband alternative to your existing dialup connection?Apply now. Complete the Availability Form on your right and
choose your broadband provider! DSL Key Residential Benefits for Home Users DSL Always-On Service Up to 25x Times Faster Than Dial-up Modem Cost Effective