2.1 Experimental animals and protocols n Neonatal cardiac myocytes were prepared from ventricles of 1-day-oldSprague- Dawley rats as described previously . Cellsuspensions were washed
with Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium(DMEM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and centrifugedat 500 for 5 min. The centrifuged cells were then resuspendedin 10%
FBS-containing DMEM. For selective enrichment of cardiacmyocytes, the dissociated cells were preplated for 60 min, duringwhich time non-cardiac myocytes readily attached to the bottomof
the culture dish. Using this method, we routinely obtainedenriched cultures containing >90% myocytes, as assayed byimmunofluorescence staining with an anti-myosin heavy chainantibody.2.2
Cell cultures and reagents [15] xg The expression plasmid for short interference RNA (siRNA) ofheat shock protein 90 (Hsp90: Hsp86 for mouse/rat homolog: pSUPERHspiR)was generated as
described previously . The green fluorescentprotein (GFP) expressing plasmid pEGFP-C1 was obtained fromBD Bioscience Clontech (Mountain View, CA). Polyclonal antibodiesagainst the rat
VLDL receptor (VR2) were generated as describedpreviously . Anti-cardiac troponin I (cTnI) monoclonal antibodywas obtained from Biogenesis (England, UK). Anti-Hsp90 monoclonalantibody
was purchased from Stressgen (Victoria, Canada) and8D Transduction Laboratories (San Jose, CA). IL-1B, TNFand interferon- (IFN-) were obtained from Genzyme/Techne (Minneapolis, MN).
Human endothelin-1 (ET-1) was purchased from Peptide Institutelnc. (Tokyo, Japan). The IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) waspurchased from Pepro Tech Inc. (Rocky Hill, NJ). Herbimycina,
(HA), geldanamycin (GA), genistein, radicicol, sodium nitroprusside(SNP), and N-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) were purchasedfrom Calbiochem (San Diego, CA). The remaining reagents
includingLPS (0111:84) and angiotensin II (AII) were obtained from Sigmaunless otherwise specified. [16] [12] G The left ventricles of mice were cut into 1-mm thick and fixedin 2.5%
glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) at4 C for 24h; tissues were washed with ice-cold phosphatebuffer (0.1 M, pH 7.4). For transmission electron microscopy,tissues were
post-fixed in 1% osmium tetroxide at 4 C fori h, and then dehydrated in a graded series of ethanol, substitutedwith propylene oxide, and embedded in Epon resin (Epok 812,Oken, Tokyo,
Japan). Ultrathin sections were stained with uranylacetate and lead citrate and observed with a conventional transmissionelectron microscope (JEM-1200EX, JOEL, Tokyo, Japan) at an
accelerating voltage of 80-kV. Photographs were taken at 3000.2.3 Transmission electron microscopy x Gene transfection of cardiac myocytes with pSUPER-HspiRand pEGFP-C1 was performed
using a Rat Cardiomyocyte-NeonatalNucleofector Kit (Amaxa Biosystems, Cologne, Germany), accordingto the manufacturer's instruction. Briefly, freshly isolatedcardiac myocytes (1 10 cells)
were suspended in the specifiedelectroporation buffer, and 3.6 tig of pSUPERHspiR andO.4 tug of pEGFP-C1 were added subsequently. After themixed solution was added to the special
Nucleofector device(Amaxa Biosystems) for gene transfection, the transfected cellswere cultured on the cover slips in eight culture plates (1 10 cells/well, Lab-Tek chamber slide, Nunc, IN).2.4
Transfection x6x5_ For immunostaining for VLDL-R in cardiac myocytes, the cellswere cultured on the cover slips in eight culture plates (Lab-Tekchamber slide) for 4 days, and treated with or
without IL-1Bfor 48 h. The cells were washed with phsoshate-buffered saline(PBS), fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 10 min, andtreated with 3% hydrogen peroxide for 10 min to
block endogenousperoxidase activity. Blocking was with 5% bovine serum albumin(BSA) for 15 min, incubated with anti-VLDL-R antibody (VR2:1/600) for 1 h, followed by incubation with
peroxidase-conjugatedanti-rabbit IgG (Zymed Laboratories Inc., San Francisco, CA)for 45 min. The immunoreactive cells were detected with 3,3'-diaminobenzidinetetrahydrochloride (DAB
Substrate Kit: Vector Laboratories Inc.,Burlingame, CA).2.5 Immunostaining For immunofluorescence double staining, the cells that weretransfected with the corresponding plasmids were
cultured onthe cover slips in eight culture plates (Lab-Tek chamber slide)for 4 days, and treated with or without IL-1 for 48 h.The cells were fixed and blocked as described above, and
incubatedwith primary antibodies against Hsp90 (2.5 g/mL), VLDL-R(VR2: 1/600), and GFP (polyclonal: 1/500, monoclonal: 2 ig/mL)for 1h. The secondary antibodies (Jackson
ImmunoResearch Laboratories,Inc., West Grove, PA) were used as follows: goat anti-mouselgG conjugated with Cy3 for Hsp90, goat anti-mouse IgG conjugatedwith FITC for GFP (monoclonal),
goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugatedwith Cy3 for VLDL-R, and goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated withFITC for GFP (polyclonal). The cells were incubated with DAPI(Wako Pure Chemical Ltd., Osaka,
Japan) for nucleic acid staining.after washing, the cells were mounted and observed using confocallaser scanning microscopy (Leica TCS-SP2 AOBS spectral, Heidelberg,Germany). No signals
were detected when normal goat serum otirrelevant IgG was used instead of the primary antibody as anegative control. B-VLDL and LDL were prepared and labeled with
1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine(Dil) (Molecular Probes, Inc., Eugene, OR) as described previously. To evaluate the uptake of Dil-lipoproteins, cells weretreated with or
without 10 ng/mL IL-18 or 1000 U/mL IFN-for 24 h, washed twice with PBS, and then incubated with 5%lipoprotein-depleted serum (LPDS)/DMEM containing 10 1g/mLDil-labeled B-VLDL
(Dil-B-VLDL) or 10 [ig/mLDil-labeled LDL (Dil-LDL) for 3 h at 37 C. The cells werewashed with 2% BSA/PBS and fixed with 4% formalin in 0.3 M phosphatebuffer (pH 7.4). The uptake of
Dil-lipoproteins was detectedby fluorescence microscopy (BX-51, Olympus, Tokyo, Japan).2.6 Lipoprotein preparation and immunofiuorescence detection [17] Immunoblotting was performed
as described previously . Briefly,cells were washed with ice-cold PBS and then lysed in RIPA buffer(25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 2.5 mM EDTA, 10 mM sodium pyrophosphate,SO mM Naf, 137 mM
NaCl, 100 YM NaVO, 1% Triton X-100,10% glycerol, 1% deoxycholic acid, 0.1% SDS, and fresh 0.1 mMphenylmethyl sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 10 j1g/mL ofleupeptin). The cell lysates were
prepared by scraping, sonication,and centrifugation. Cellular protein concentrations were determinedby the DC protein assay (Bio-Rad). Cell lysates were subjectedto SDS-PAGE under reducing
conditions, and the protein bandsthen transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. The membranewas blocked for 2 h at room temperature with 5% skim milk, andthen incubated for 1h at room
temperature with the primaryantibodies, followed by incubation for 1 h with the secondaryantibody, conjugated horseradish peroxidase. Immunoreactivebands were visualized by an enhanced
chemiluminescence (ECL)system (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech UK Ltd., Buckinghamshire,UK), with the level of protein expression being quantified usingNIH image 1.63 software.2.7
Immunoblotting [18] 34 Immunoprecipitation were performed as described previously .Briefly, the cells were washed with ice-cold PBS and lysed ingentle lysis buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5,
2.5 mM EDTA,10 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 50 mM NaF, 137 mM NaCl, 100 WMNaVO, 1% Triton X-100, 10% glycerol, and fresh 0.1 mM PMSFand 10 g/mL of leupeptin). Immunoprecipitation
was carriedout in the presence of the primary antibody for 2 h at 4 C,followed by overnight incubation with a protein A-Sepharoseslurry. Following washing, the immunoprecipitates were
boiledin sample buffer, separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred, and immunoblotted.2.8 Immunoprecipitation [17] 34 Total cellular RNA was prepared from cardiac myocytes by theguanidine
isothiocyanate-cesium chloride (GITC-CsCl)method using RNAeasy (Invitrogen) as described previously .Realtime RT-PCR analysis was performed to detect the mRNA expressionof inducible
nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) by using the ABI Prism7000 system (PE Applied Biosystems, Inc.); the primers and PCRconditions for VLDL-R and iNOS have been described previously. The
expression levels of each target gene were normalizedby subtracting the corresponding B-actin threshold cycle(C) values by using the C comparative method.2.9 Realtime RT-PCR analysis [15]
[17,19] T Data are expressed as the mean + SD. For comparisonsbetween multiple groups, we determined the significance of thedifference between group means by one-way analysis of
variance(ANOVA) or an unpaired t test. All analysis was performed usingStatView software (Abacus Concepts, Inc., Berkeley, CA). Differenceswith values<0.05 were considered to be
statistically significant.2.10 Statistical analysis p