Tornadoes are nature's most violent storm. A tornado is a violently rotating column of air in contact with the ground. A Tornado Watch -- indicates the tornadoes and severe weather are
possible. A Tornado Warning -- means that a tornado has been detected. Before a tornado: for you and your family members at home, work, home, school, and when outdoors. Practice
your plan. Know the county in which you live, and keep a highway map nearby to follow the storm reports. Listen to NOAA Weather Radio broadcasts. Your local media may provide weather
updates and warnings. Develop a plan When a tornado warning is issued: Move to a designated shelter, such as a basement. if no shelter is available, move to a lower floor interior hallway or
room. If in an automobile, leave the car immediately, find a low spot, and lie flat on the ground. Mobile homes provide little protection from tornadoes and should be moved away from during
the tomado watch phase. Tornadoes can develop so rapidly that no warning is possible. Remain alert for the signs of approaching tornadoes. Most deaths and injuries from tornados are due to
flying debris. One of the most interesting recent developments is the concept of strengthening an interior room to serve as a storm shelter in your home. After studying houses damaged by
high winds and tornadoes it has been found that often a small interior room, such as a closet or bathroom, remains intact after the house is destroyed. Part of the reason for this relates to how
winds act on the structure. High winds like those generated by a tornado often lift the house off of the floor of the house, leaving behind the floor and the interior rooms. So the idea is to
strengthen an interior room to serve as a shelter during a tornado or other high wind event. To order a copy of FEMA's: Taking Shelter From the Storm: Building a Safe Room Inside Your House:
and the accompanying construction plans and specifications, call 1-888-565-3896 and request a copy of publication FEMA 320. If you would like to order only the construction plans and
specifications, please call the same telephone number and request publication FEMA 320A. For more information see For information about a NCDC Special Tornado Reports