Lynn DeBruin, sports reporter Jan. 20, 2009No Comment To think it all started with a phone call from outside a Kmart, confirming a story that John Elway had just blown off the president to
play golf. That was more than 10 1/2 years ago, and I wasnt even officially on the beat. Yet thats how my career began at the Rocky Mountain News. As strange as it seems writing this
column now about what the Rocky has meant to me, its also provided a sense of peace as I look back over the memorable and not so memorable moments. For starters, lets just say that I
have learned a lot: First, There is No Running at the Masters. Second, my shorthand will never keep up with Shannon Sharpe's mouth. And third, even Masterminds get fired. I also discovered
that it is possible to write 35 stories on Terrell Davis in one season, and three alone on John Elway after his Super Bowl MVP performance. Yet as much as I lived and breathed Broncos for six
seasons, my memories go far beyond the blue-and-orange. Wasn't it just yesterday I was sitting on a bench in Charlotte, N.C., listening to former Pro Bowl linebacker Sam Mills talk about the
cancer he was fighting, and getting the courage to ask him if he was scared. I cried six months later when I leamed of his death, at age 45. Wasn't it just last month when Coloradans Nate
Oderberg and Cyndi Bixler opened up about the athlete/sons they loved and lost to suicide. It may have been the toughest feature I ever wrote, but I'l never forget them or the opportunity
this job gave me not only to tell their story, but to tell it in such a way that it might help somebody else. Sure, there were Xs and Os and fades and slices, but the people are what made the
job rewarding. It was amazing to watch Michael Campbell, or as he called himself, little me from New Zealand, stealing the headlines at the 2005 U.S. Open, and Iowan Zach Johnson cutting
down the worlds No. 1 en route to his own field of dreams at the 2007 Masters. On the local front, somehow I survived a raging blizzard to meet Joy Nameth, an outgoing teen who lived out
of tents, trucks and back rooms but taught herself to read and eventually found her way home, first to tiny Walden and her father and then onto the Naval Academy. Sure, there were plenty of
assignments I questioned at first. But in the end they were worth the time spent in the freezing cold or searing heat. I was able to see how a simple game of pond hockey could turn grown men
into kids again, and witness the pure joy a pretty-in-pink golf prodigy found chasing after a little white ball. Of course, I've done my best to forget the hundreds of calls that werent retumed
from agents and big-timing pro athletes; but I'm grateful for the ones that did come - even if they came when I least expected. It didnt matter that I was in the shower in 1998 when the late
Johnny Unitas called back. He never knew that I conducted the entire interview dripping wet, knowing full well second chances dont always come. While we at the Rocky ponder what might be
next in life, heres a look back at a few who made this the best job I ever had. The Southern Gentleman. Dan Reeves didnt really know me but somehow I had talked my way via phone into
meeting him up at the lake home he and his wife Pam were building. Still, the best-laid plans seemed to be falling apart when our freelance photographer and I both got lost. Driving in
separate cars, and using cell phones that had no bars, we navigated the back roads of rural Georgia. And when he arrived first, I begged him to keep Reeves long enough for me to get there,
Little did I realize Reeves not only would wait but would offer a full tour, and a ride in his boat on that beautiful autumn day. I can still see the sun lighting up his face and the breeze tossing
his hair. He told jokes and reminisced, but the best line of the day came from Pam, a petite spitfire and a major strength behind this football legend. She was the one who had to make sure the
construction was moving along, right down to picking out the fireplace mantel. And she would relay a story from the sales clerk about how they got that railroad tie to look old by tying the
beams to a truck, then hauling ass. So which beams did Pam want? I want them haul ass beams, she said without missing a beat. To this point, it had remained the best line that I had
never been able to get in the paper. Tiger Tales Its true. He really did take my tee time at Torrey Pines when he sank that memorable putt on No. 18 to force a Monday playoff at the 2008
U.S. Open. But I'm not complaining. Playing 18 with fellow writers never would have compared to walking 19 alongside golfs greatest in the most memorable Open in history. I can stil
remember Rocco Mediate high-fiving folks as he was carted back for the awards ceremony, and simply flashing a big thumbs-up when the sound system failed. Peas and carrots No, Inever
counted what John Elway ate, but thats not to say I wasnt sent anywhere and everywhere as the sporting world awaited his decision on whether to return or retire following the 1998 season.
Never mind that I had blown out my knee skiing with a co-worker on Christmas Eve. I was still headed to the Tonight Show with Jay Leno, crutches and all, with a recruited friend driving my
car and carrying my briefcase. It all went pretty good until we met some folks at dinner who convinced us to go to the Polo Room at the Beverly Hills Hilton afterward. While the pre-Grammy
crowd walked the red carpet, we arrived in our own style  rented green Toyota Tercel, seriously underdressed, with crutches hanging out the window. Still, the champagne never tasted so
good. Grandpa Jack No question he loved football, loved his son and loved life. And when I dictated my Super Bowl ring ceremony story from the back of the Golden Bee at the Broadmoor and
saw him in the piano bar, I couldn't resist requesting song No 7  Bad, Bay Leroy Brown  from the play list and dedicating it to Jack Elway. Soon he and his wife were dancing. He is gone
now, but there's no forgetting his zest for life. Those are some of the people I'll never forget. Here are some of the sounds: Alfred Williams laugh at those late-night dart-throwing sessions at
The smiling Moose during training camp in Greeley. The roar through my phone when the Rocky learned it had one not one, but two Pulitzer prizes in 2006 for the series Final Salute. The
sounds of Sweet Caroline sung by Red Sox fans close enough to touch from the auxiliary press box in right field at Fenway Park. My heart skipping a beat during an Oh, No! hold-the-presses
Dewey beats Truman panic-attack after filing a story on Todd Helton finally making it to the World Series only to have to write a new one in minutes just in case after the Diamondbacks started
a comeback in Game 4 of the NLCS. The sound of an ice-cold Tooheys New cracked open after the American Bowl in Sydney - a truce from a rival columnist pulled from his suit pocket as we
waited for the next bus out of the stadium. If only the newspaper war could have been so easy. Its hard to believe Ive been at this for 25 years, along the way witnessing the execution of a
murderer, Tigers famous hole-in-one at the beer fest known then as the Phoenix Open, and the beauty that is Augusta National at dawn. Through it all, I've always tried to paint a picture for
those who couldnt go where I went. I'l still do that, in some form. Change is just part of life. Just like that Kmart on Arapahoe road. Its gone now and so undoubtedly is that pay phone
Testimonials More testimonials Candlelight March I Want My Rocky will hold a candlelight march from the Denver Press Club to the Denver Newspaper Agency building Thursday, Jan. 29, to
show support for the Rocky Mountain News. The event is open to one and all: readers and writers, labor and management, Post and News and DNA, public officials and private citizens. Each
marcher  150 total 0 will hold a candle and placard representing one year of the newspaperlJs 150-year history. The group will gather at the Denver Press Club at 6 p.m. and head out single
file to the DNA building at 6:30 p.m. Marchers will ring the building. The person bearing the 1859 placard and candle will light the candle representing 1860, 1860 will light 1861 and so on
through 2009. The vigil will last about a half hour. If you would like to be a part of this historic event, please contact John Ensslin at . contactus@iwantmyrocky.com What you can do to help
listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper
Preservation Act. reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the board of E.W. Scripps , send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the
Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts a newspaper.Buy