Contacts Careers in Nonproliferation The Nonproliferation Graduate Program (NGP) is a full-time graduate program for students interested in exploring a career in nuclear nonproliferation. The
program is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), National Nuclear Security Administration's (NNSA's) Office of Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and administered by Pacific
Northwest National Laboratory. The mission of the Office of Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation (DNN) is to detect, prevent, and reverse the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, while
mitigating the risks from nuclear operations. In support of this mission, NGP fellows are assigned to a specific DNN program office. Working with select supervisors and mentors, NGP fellows
assist with programs that involve cutting-edge nonproliferation and national security research and developmentconducting nuclear materials, nuclear weapons, and radiological materials at
potentially vulnerable sites in Russia and elsewheresecuring the quantities of nuclear and radiological materialsreducing border security overseasbolstering international nonproliferation and
export control regimesstrengthening the nuclear weapons infrastructure of the former Soviet Uniondownsizing risks at nuclear facilities worldwide.mitigating Nonproliferation Graduate
Program Objectives NGP objectives are to promote awareness of careers in nonproliferation at the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and U.S. national laboratories provide
participants with specialized training and valuable practical experience in the field of nonproliferation aid NNSA in achieving its mission develop a talent pool that can assist NNSA with its
international security and nonproliferation programs. This program is a perfect complement to my academic career because it adds invaluable practical and professional experience on policy
formation (from concept to implementation), U.S. foreign policy, and international relations to my academic work. Further, my academic experiences have prepared me to try to apply
theoretical models of international relations and nonproliferation to real-world situations, with varied results. Pritham Khalsa, NGP graduate