Login Register Sign up for our e-newsletter articles Subscribe: One year subscriptions to Classic Motorsports magazine are only $19.95. Try a free issue of Classic Motorsports, No cost, no
obligation. 1962-1980 MGBThe Why is the such a favorite with classic-car hobbyists? The answer is simple: It is good-looking, fun to drive and easy to maintain. These are the same reasons
the , with a few changes, was successful in the new-car market for nearly two decades.MGBMGBby Carl Heideman From the May 2004 issue hinking about buying your first classic two-seat
sports car? If you are, and you ask 10 classic-car specialists which one to buyClas we did in a recent issue of Classic MotorsportsLiif the answers you get are anything like ours, then three of
the 10 will recommend the as their first choice, and the will make the top-10 list of every one of them.TMGBMGB Why is the such a favorite with classic-car hobbyists? The answer is simple:
is good-looking, fun to drive and easy to maintain. These are the same reasons the , with a few changes, was successful in the new-car market for nearly two decades. Today, good examples
are easy to find, inexpensive to buy and are backed by a fantastic network of enthusiasts to provide support and share the fun of ownership.MGBMGBMGB What do you need to know and what
should you look for when buying an ? WeCIll be happy to explain.MGB Most Popular Sports Car Ever Made? For many years, enthusiasts of the made the claim that this was the best-selling
sports car ever made. With a total of more than 513,000 cars assembled at Abingdon from 1962 through 1980, and more than 300,000 roadsters exported to the U.S., until very recently they
had the numbers on their side.MGB Corvette owners may claim that they own the best-selling marque, but in its lifetime the Corvette has undergone significant changes in style, chassis and
powertrain. By comparison, the changes made to the were minor. Individual components were modified, but from the first to last the car used the same basic bodyshell, the same engine block,
and the same suspension and drivetrain.MGB The one challenger to Os crownis, of course, the Miata. At the end of 2000, approximately 585,000 Miatas had been built, with very little change
to body style or basic specifications since their introduction in 1989. So fans can no longer make their claim on the basis of production totals, but they can still brag that theirs is the most
popular classic sports car ever made.MGBMGB A production run of 18 years and more than a half-million cars speaks volumes about the quality of the . And for the new enthusiast, these
numbers mean there are a lot of cars for sale and a lot of spare parts with which to keep them running for many years. What accounted for the long run and great reception, when so many
other sports cars came and went during the same period?MGB The First MGB The was introduced in September 1962, a great time for sports cars. On any Sunday, in any major city, sports-car
owners could be found exercising their Austin-Healey 3000s and Sprites, Sunbeam Alpines, Triumph TR3s, Corvettes, Alfa Romeo Giuliettas, Jaguars and Porsche 356s in competitive events.
Rallies were being run on country roads, autocrosses were set up on shopping-center parking lots, and road races were being run on tracks.MGBSCCA The octagonal trademark with the letters
M and G, harkening back to the Car Company(s beginning as Morris Garages in the (130s, had been represented in these events since 1946. The was the first postwar to carry the octagon,
followed by the and . Those three models, referred to as square rigged because their erect radiators and separate fenders gave the look of a square-rigged ship under sail, established in the
The was even featured on the cover of magazine. The light and quick-handling little cars had much to do with a growing American enchantment with sports cars

in general.M.G.TCMGMGTDTFMGU.S.MGTCLIFE In 1955, the was replaced by the lovely , a belated response to the curvaceous offerings of Austin-Healey and Jaguar. With its solid 1500, 1600
and then 1622cc four-cylinder engine and four-speed manual transmission, the became quite popular on the streets and tracks of the U.S., and rapidly outsold the prewar-style

T-series models.TFMGAMGA However, with a rudimentary canvas top and separate plastic side windows, and very little space in the passenger compartment or trunk ( hood, side-curtains,
cockpit and boot in the Anglophile jargon of the Faithful, as enthusiasts call themselves), the was behind the times compared to the Sunbeam Alpine and the Alfa Giulietta. After all, those cars
had roll-up windows, reasonable trunks and workable tops, even if they were a little underpowered. Purists didnCit take them very seriously because they were so comfortable, but they showed
what could, and should, be done.MGMGA Clearly something a little more comfortable, a little more practical and, above all, a little more powerful was needed. had in the wings just what was
needed, and for once its offering would be ahead of the curve. In June 1962, the first 1800 rolled off the assembly line in Abingdon, England.MGMGB. Breaking from the traditional
body-on-frame structure of the and most other contemporary sports cars, the had a monocoque chassis that combined bodyshell and frame into a single unit. With the monocoque, was able to
take 40 pounds off the carCls weight compared to the , and shorten the wheelbase by three inches and the chassis by 23/4 inches while increasing interior space.MGAMGBMGMGA The body
style also broke new ground for , replacing the long, curving front fenders and short rump for a styling line that ran unbroken from headlight to taillight. Its true that Datsun had introduced a
similar body style on its 1600 Fairlady one year earlier, but any connection between the two developments is lost to history. Nevertheless, where the Datsun suffered from retaining a
body-on-frame structure and was clunky and heavy-handed in its execution of the styling concept, the was understated and graceful.MGMGB The also had a comfortable cabin with attractive
leather seats trimmed in contrasting piping, a black crackle-finish dashboard, an attached convertible top that was easy to erect (purists could choose a completely removable top, but few did),
roll-up windows and a heater that actually worked.MGB And the new had a respectable amount of power. The first version of the engine had little changed in design from the , but was opened
up to 1798cc (nominally 1800 as cast into the block), and could manage 94 horsepower at 5500 rpm with 107 Ib.-ft. of torque, which was more than enough to make the 1920-pound car feel
quite peppy.MGBMGA If You Have a Good Thing British Motor Corporation, manufacturer of Austin-Healey as well as MGs, saw little reason to make more than minor modifications to the for
many years. In fact, for the restorer, there are many more differences among cars built for different destination markets within a given year than between model years. In many cases, a parts
list and serial numbers are needed to tell what was original for a particular ca-MGB In October 1964, for the 1965 model year, a five-main-bearing engine replaced the three-main-bearing
design that had carried over from the , and a Laycock de Normanville overdrive became available as an option, making the car much more comfortable for long distances at

highway speeds.MGAU.S. With the engine improvements, power increased to 98 horsepower, torque to 110 Ib.-ft., and top speed to 110 mph. The engine was still nominally an 1800, but the
capacity numbers used for the model designation had been quietly dropped, and the car was advertised simply as the . This was the most powerful engine the would produce for

North America.MGBMGB In April 1965, push-button handles replaced the original pull-handles on the doors. This is a seemingly minor change, but since it is easy to see, and occurred soon
after the model-year change and the engine upgrade, pull-handle is often used by enthusiasts to designate cars from the 1963 and 1964 model years.MG_also announced the new three-door
coupe in October 1965 for the 1966 model year. This neatly styled variant, offering an easily accessible cargo area and a rudimentary rear seat with a folding back, was a breakthrough design
and was later copied by other manufacturers.MGMGBGT Aside from its higher windshield and roofline, and obviously heavier body, the was mechanically identical to the tourer. It did get the
stronger Salisbury rear axle, but that was introduced on the tourers beginning in 1967. Through the years there were some interior trim differences between the and the tourer, but in most
respects, the cars are very similarGTGT The would be produced in parallel with the tourer through the end of production. However, the 19741/2 models were the last sold in the The practical
hardtop sold for slightly more than the tourer, and would represent approximately one-third of all production.GTMGBU.S.MGB Change Is Not Always for the Best The first actual change in
model designation came with the introduction of the Mark for model year 1968. ItCls not clear why bothered with the name change, except pethaps for marketing purposes, since the changes
were largely minor improvements. An all-synchromesh transmission replaced the earlier unsynchronized-first-gear tranny, the stronger rear axle was installed, an alternator replaced the
generator and the car was switched to a negative-ground electrical system. Back-up lights were also added, and a few minor changes were made to the layout of gauges and controls on the
dashboard. Os first-ever automatic transmission was available as an option, but this wasnLIt installed on many MGBs, especially those bound for North Ametica.IMGMG Unfortunately, the
same model year saw the first emission-control devicesClan air pump and air injectorsCladded to North American engines. The devices reduced horsepower from the 1965-[167 model year
zenith to 92 horsepower. In retrospect, the addition of these components, required to meet California air-quality regulations, signaled an era of increasing government regulations. In addition,
to meet new Department of Transportation () interior safety regulations, cars for the North American market were equipped with a heavily padded vinyl dashboard for the 1968 model year,
instead of the lovely crackle-finish dashboard that was still a distinctive part of the interior in other markets, and rocker switches replaced the airplanelike toggles. The pillowy padding on the
passenger side also forced removal of the glove box. Many enthusiasts think this interior change was as bad as the loss of horsepower.U.S.DOTMGB In the same year, in the hopes of producing
a more powerful variant that could fill the void left when the Austin-Healey 3000 ended production, introduced the six-cylinder . The new engine, while similar to the big Healey engine in
specifications, had been designed for the . Unfortunately, the effort and investment were for naught. Although an was Prince Charles(s first car, the model was nose-heavy and met with a
resounding razzberry in the sports-car market. It lasted only two model years, with less than 10,000 units produced.MGMGCMGMGC A Long but Slippery Slope Few changes were made
between the introduction of the Mark for 1968 and the next major changes in 1972. The -Leyland merger, bringing the Triumph marque into the fold, took place in 1968, creating British Leyland
() with managers at the helm who tended to favor Triumph over other marques.IIBMCBLBL However, the first changes wrought by the new management were minor, focusing on updating the
Os appearance in 1970 with a blacked-out grille that was not an aesthetic improvement, side flasher lights and Rostyle styled steel wheels. Inside, the lovely leather trim was replaced by
chintzy Ambla embossed vinyl (in any color you wanted, as long as it was black or tan). Although no model designation was used, many enthusiasts refer to this model as the Mark .MGBIIT
1972 marked the beginning of the slippery slope that would eventually bring the (160s generation of sports cars to a whimpering end. Forced to meet increasingly stringent emissions
requirements, reduced engine compression on North American cars from 8.8:1 to 8.0:1 (the rest of the world actually got an increase to 9.1:1), which slashed output from 92 to

78.5 horsepower.U.S.BL As a sidelight, almost irrelevant to enthusiasts, dropped the Rover V8 into some of the GTs for European markets, creating a car that was claimed to have a top speed
of 124 mph and zero-to-60 time of 7.7 seconds. However, this model was never sold legally in the U.S., though it did suggest a more-power strategy that hotrodders are still

following today.U.S.BLMGBMG Emissions requirements werenCit the only problem in the market. In an effort to reduce highway deaths, the saddled layer upon layer of safety requirements on
the auto industry. Mid-1974 marked the most significant production change to the . Forced to meet bumper requirements effective at the beginning of 1975 that specified both height and
five-mph impact protection, the was fitted with the infamous rubber bumpers that significantly changed its appearance. (Actually, the term is misleading, since the bumpers were made of
polyurethane plastic, with steel inserts.) This model is often referred to as the 19741/2, or the Mark though neither term appeared in factory literature.U.S.DOTMGBMGBIVMGB A fat rear
bumper covered the valance and tips of the rear fenders. In the front, a single-piece bumper was attached that covered the car from side to side, and extended from an air intake in front of the
front valance up to and including the octagon badge. The grille, which had reverted for a year and a half to a chrome style, was now completely a thing of the past, with the radiator served by
air flowing through openings in the bumper. Perhaps more unfortunate than the rubber bumpers, the requirements mandated that bumpers on all cars had to have the same impact height. The
only way could meet this without completely redesigning the carCland by then there was no money for such a possibilityClwas by raising the ride height, giving the car something of the look of
a baby buggy. The higher ride height would have been bad enough, but handling was made even worse when the bean counters forced removal of the front anti-roll bar. Press reports
complained that the car felt tippy in turns.DOTMG Giving the model another push down the slope to oblivion, reductions in acceptable emissions forced another overhaul of the engine for
model year 1975. The two carburetors, icons of proper British cars, had to go. Replacing them was a single Zenith-Stromberg unit. Power dropped to 62.5 horsepowerCinot much different from
the 1964 MidgetCland torque fell to 86 lb.-ft. Power-assist was added to the brake system, but this hardly seemed necessary. With power on the cars so low, some said that dragging oneCIs
heels out the door was more than enough to bring the car to a stop.SUMGU.S. The End of the Line Surprisingly, even the radical decline in horsepower and unfortunate styling changes didnOIt
spell the end of the , at least not yet. In fact, the early (170s saw the highest production numbers in AbingdonCls history. But the end was in sight.MGB The British automobile industry was
self-destructing, as much from its own disorganization as from the outside pressures of galloping global inflation and rising oil prices. There was no money for proper redesign to cope with
regulatory pressures, much less contend with the Datsun 240Z and other new competitors in the market. For the next five model years, the best that could muster for the was a series of
Limited Editions that incorporated special decals, alloy wheels and custom-look steering wheels in hopes of attracting the few enthusiasts with a penchant for things British.U.S.BLU.S. Even the
companyCis management couldnt miss the handwriting on the wall and, in an amazing example of tactlessness, chose the week when Abingdon was celebrating 50 years of production to
announce, on Sept. 10, 1979, that production would end in 12 months and the Abingdon works would be closed. Despite various attempts to rescue the company, or at least the factory, or just
the model, production of the ended on Oct. 22, 1980.MGMGB Since that time, of course, the corpse has escaped from the tomb in several guises. The octagon appeared on badge-engineered
Metro econoboxes, then on sports cars from the Rover Group made by inserting Rover engines in reproduction bodyshells. Most recently, -Rover Group badge-engineered Rover sedans have
appeared as will a mid-engined sports car for the rest of the world.BLMGBMG Phil Llewellin, our European correspondent, recently opined in these pages that the marque deserved better. That
it might have happened in some alternative universe is proved every day, as hundreds of Miatas, surely the heirs to the British sporting-car tradition exemplified by the , come rolling off
Japanese assembly lines.MGB But many of those huge numbers of MGBs originally produced are still found on roads, some in pristine concours condition, some in hot, highly modified guises,
and some struggling along as inexpensive beaters. What those drivers share is a connection to motoring traditions of the past and the pleasure of driving a car that is slightly out of the
ordinary, though it doesnCit have to apologize for its performance on todayCis highways. In other words, a car that(Js just plain fun.U.S. WhatUls It Like to Own and Drive? Beyond the cost
and ease of purchasing, restoring and upgrading it, there are two very good reasons for the past and present popularity of the . First, it is fun to drive. Second, it is easy to take care of MGB
Only a few cars on the road provide the visceral pleasure of driving an . Slide into the low seat, adjust to the fit of a cockpit that is adequate even for tall driversCland with pedal extensions,
acceptable for those shorter than five foot twoCIpull out the manual choke (at least on the chrome-bumper models), key the engine to life and the sounds and feels perfect.MGBMGB Take it out
on a country road, wind it up through the gears with the positive gear change, then do a heel-and-toe downshift into a tight corner and power out again on the straight. Let the wind whip
through your hair, and listen to the song of the four-cylinder engine. No classic car at this price can offer anywhere near the same experience, and only a few modem sports cars come close.
From almost the beginning of the marque, Us slogan was Safety Fast, and generations of enthusiasts can attest that it delivered on that promise.MG But the experience isnCIt limited to
driving. For anyone who wants a brief escape from software problems, computer systems that have minds of their own, and user manuals that require a degree in electronics to understand, the
opens the door to a fast-disappearing world of basic electrical and see-how-it-works mechanical systems. With a basic set of tools, an electrical test gauge and some rudimentary mechanical
ability, any job from a basic tune-up or an oil change to a complete engine rebuild can be undertaken in the garage as a weekend alternative to video games and surfing the Net.MGB The Best
Model to Buy? A brief review of the Cis history provides an easy answer to what is considered the best to buy: The cars from model years 1966 and 1967 get that accolade. They still carried
the dassic body style, highlighted by shiny bumpers and a pretty grille. Under the hood, the engine had been converted to a very reliable five-main-bearing design that produced nearly 100
horsepower at the flywheel. Inside, the seats were upholstered in leather, with lovely contrasting piping, and the dashboard was adorned with black crackle-finish paint and toggle switches,
evoking memories of fighter planes and the Battle of Britain.MGBMGB As with all classic cars, the best of the breed attracts the highest prices, so it isnt surprising that these cars have the
highest values. However, even for the very best restoration of the most desirable model, prices are still at a level that wouldnCit buy a half-decent Austin-Healey of the same vintage.
Unrestored versions are occasionally found for $5000 or less, and the highest prices fetched at auction donCit exceed $25,000. Very good examples can be found for $10,000 to $15,000. In
terms of preferences, the earlier cars from the 1963 through 1965 model years, with their three-main-bearing engines, and known by their pull-handle doors (though a few five-main cars had
the pull handles), are considered almost as desirable because of their traditional features and relative rarity. At the other end of the chrome-bumper period, the 1973 cars, with more
comfortable seats, a center console with storage compartment and armrest, practical headrests, and the restored glove box, might be considered the next level in the pecking order. Even the
vinyl seats can be recovered with a leather trim kit, Even among the rubber-bumper cars there are some subtle distinctions. The 1977-Ci80 cars are preferable to the 1975-076 cars, since
they received front and rear anti-roll bars to correct handling problems and had some interior and engine-compartment improvements. ItCIs worth noting that the Limited Edition versions
offered in the in 1979 and 1180 often turn up in very good condition with low mileage, having originally been bought by collectors and tucked away for investment purposes. They didnt
appreciate very much, and still usually sell for less than a comparable-condition chrome-bumper car, but they represent an interesting variant.U.S. However, the differences in years, and even
matching numbers and original specifications, donCt get a lot of attention in the hobby world. Instead, quality of bodywork and paint, tidiness of interior trim and, above all, performance are
the variables that really make the difference in determining how much a particular is worth.MGMGB Better yet, later models can be retro-engineered to the 1967 standards, and then upgraded
with modem modifications, such as the new Moss supercharger, to the ownerlls own tastes (see modifications sidebar on page 40). Even in California and states that share its air quality
standards, any car built in 1973 or before is usually fair game for removal of emissions systems, upgrading of carburetors, the addition of a supercharger, and other modifications. For anyone
on a budget and handy with tools, even the inexpensive rubber-bumper models can be upgraded. Many enthusiasts have discovered that when the bumpers are painted the body color and the
ride height reduced to more normal levels, the car is a pretty sleek alternative to any modem roadster. In a state where emission requirements arenLit too strict, a swap to a good
five-main-bearing engine from the late 1160s is easy enough. Kits and instructions are even available to show how to fit a Rover or Buick V8, or a variety of other six- or eight-cylinder or

rotary engines. With the variety of engine variations among the various export markets and from year to year for individual markets to cope with regulatory changes, a factory service parts list
and one of the excellent workshop manuals are essential. This factor is worth bearing in mind when buying and working on a car that has been modified by previous owners. Parts ordered
strictly by catalog and serial number may not always fit a modified car. Regardless, with the large number of cars still on the road, brand-new parts of quite good quality are readily available.
Few hobbyists even bother to part out old MGs any more, since itCIs generally just as easy to buy a new piece from the Moss Motors or Victoria British catalogs. What to Look for When Buying
 Few problems on MGBs are beyond repair, as parts are readily available from several sources. Even complete body shells can be purchased. However, parts wonCit be cheap, and unless
youDre handy with tools, mechanics] hours can add up. Here are some points to check. Body and Chassis Rust At the risk of repeating the most-often-heard warning about older cars, rust is
the enemy of the . While this is true of any body-on-frame sports car, it is more of a problem in the monocoque . Body panels can be unbolted and repaired or replaced on an or Triumph, for
example, and as long as the frame is reasonably solid, the car can be put back on the road.MGBMGBMGA On the , an advanced attack of rust can easily undermine structural reinforcements in
the bodyshell, making the car nearly worthless without extensive and intricate bodywork. So simply look out for these problems, and if there is any suspicion that they may be present,

walk away.MGB In particular, check the area around the front and rear door pillars, and along the rocker panels. If there appears to be significant filler work or the doors donCit fit well, its
likely that intemal rust has simply been covered over, and will continue to do its work unseen until the car starts to disintegrate. A magnet is a good test tool in these areas, and nothing
substitutes for putting the car up on the rack and doing a careful inspection undemeath and in all the nooks and crannies. Once itCis on the rack, carefully check around the battery boxes and
the points where the rear suspension fastens to the bodyshell, as well as in the fender openings around the wheels. Engine Issues Engine problems are less likely to have serious implications,
but there is no reason to pay for work that hasnCit been done. A surprising number of MGBs have never been restored, so its not unusual to find one with all the original fittings and wiring
hidden under a coating of grease and dirt. Such a car may be a good find and can be put back together and run for fun with little effort. Just adjust the price for the work that will need to

be done. The bottom end of the engine generally holds up well. Look for oil pressure above 25 psi at idle and 55-70 psi on the highway. These engines will tend to bum oil as they age, but will
run a long time as long as oil is topped up as needed. Cylinder heads are a different story. They have a tendency to crack, especially in the cylinder three exhaust area due to some design
flaws. ItCls a good idea to perform a compression check and make sure the valves have been adjusted regularly. Rebuilt cast-iron heads are getting more scarce, but aftermarket aluminum
heads are a viable option.OEM The carburetors are often worn, especially the throttle shafts. Spray carb cleaner around the throttle shafts while the car is idling. If the idle quality improves,
the shafts are wom and the carbs will need rebuilding, but this is a home workshop job for most hobbyists, and is probably worth doing on any older .SUMGB Cracked exhaust manifolds are
fairly common on single-carburetor cars, though fairly rare on earlier dual-carb models. Check for a hissing sound on acceleration. These sometimes can be repaired by a good machine shop,
but finding a good used manifold is usually easier, and a complete conversion to a dual-carb setup may be the best bet. Suspension Components The suspension is pretty sturdy but bears
inspection. On the front suspension, kingpins will last 100,000 miles if maintained properly, but less than 50,000 if not. Look for excessive play, especially at the bottom fulcrum. Often, lower
wishbone bushings will be worn out, especially on rubber-bumper cars. Put the car on a jack stand and try to wiggle the wheel from top to bottom to spot problems in this area. On the brakes,
the shoes may be a problem, usually because the wheel cylinders or the axle seals fail and soak them. This problem is more common on northern cars that get stored in the winter, as the seals,
stick themselves to their mating surfaces during storage. Sagging rear leaf springs are somewhat common. Look for even ride height front to rear and leaves that are not separating. The lever
shocks, like the wiring, have a worse reputation than they deserve. Rear shocks seldom fail, but fasteners may loosen over time. When front shocks wear out, they can be replaced individually,
and quality replacements are available. To test the front shocks, push down on the corner of the car; if it rebounds more than once, the shocks are questionable. Tube-shock conversions for
the front are not a good idea: most kits are improperly engineered. Rear tube shock conversions are okay, but not really necessary. Wire wheels and hubs should be checked carefully for
broken spokes and worn splines. If the spokes are broken, the best remedy is to buy new wheels; replacements are cheaper than wheel repair, if you can even find anyone who will relace a
wire wheel. If the wheel can be rotated slightly on the hub with the knock-off loosened, or the car makes a thump in the rear when starting off, check wheel and hub splines. Sharp tips on the
splines mean they are worn out, and both the wheels and hubs will need to be replaced. Previous Owner Efforts The biggest problems with the cars tend to be with the improvements or
repairs done by previous owners, especially in the electrical system. The factory wiring works just fine as long as connectors arenDit corroded. ItCis not uncommon to see alternator
conversions, fuel-pump substitutions and electric fans added with poor attention to detail, bracketry and wiring; these can all cause reliability problems. ItOs not even uncommon to find new
wires, even common lamp cord, running alongside the wiring harness to fix an electrical problem that may simply have been due to frayed wiring or corroded connectors. Going back to the
factory parts and installing and wiring them properly cures a lot of ills. When to Walk Away If the car youDIre checking out looks as if it will need a lot of work, youCre better off searching for
one in better conditionOunless, of course, this is the one that brought you and your mother home from the hospital on your first car trip. Modifications and Upgrades for the MGB. One of the
great advantages of ownership is the potential to upgrade and fine-tune the car to the owner(s individual tastes. Better power, better comfort or better looks are all possible, often with simple
bolt-on changes.MGB More Power While performance degraded through the late 1960s and (170s, itis straightforward to backdate an engine to the earlier specifications. Dual-carb
conversions on post-(174 cars are as simple as using the carbs, intake and exhaust manifolds, and exhaust systems from the earlier cars. The conversion is worth five to 15 horsepower. Earlier
performance-curved distributors can be substituted for later emissions-derived units. For additional horsepower, the aftermarket offers myriad options. The place to start: Upgrade to electronic
ignition with a good advance curve, add some K&N air filters to dual carbs, and get a good tune-up. These changes will add five to 10 horsepower. While bigger carbs or a Weber carb may
seem logical as a next step, porting the cylinder head (addressing the engines Achilles heel) is necessary to put them to good use. A cylinder head easily can add 10 to 30 horsepower when
matched with the correct components. Aftermarket -replacement aluminum heads are available to replace the stock cast-iron five-port units, and there is also an aluminum seven-port crossflow
unit available that can make big power gains when matched to the right components.SUMGBOEM Cam, bottom end and compression changes all round out the performance updates for the
engine. The factory cam and bottom end are very good for engines that arenDIt intended to rev past 6000 rpm, providing good torque and drivability. For those who like to rev higher,
beefed-up reciprocating parts and more radical cams are available off the shelf. Supercharging recently has become an easy option for the . Two different kits are available, one from Moss
Motors, the other from Hans PedersonCis High Flow in Australia. Each is well-engineered and will add 25-plus horsepower when installed.MGB Engine swaps are becoming more common. While
the Buick/Olds/Rover aluminum 215 cu.in. V8 has been the most popular swap through the years (mimicking the factory V8 cars), Ford 302 and Chevy V6 swaps seem to be gaining ground
Mazda Miata and Ford Zetec swap kits also are going to be available soon for those who want to stay with four-cylinder power. Mazda rotary swaps have been done, too, but rotary engines are
getting harder to find. With modifications done in the engine compartment, gearbox changes are next. Converting a car from the standard-issue four-speed gearbox to the optional
overdrive-equipped box is just a matter of sourcing a good used or rebuilt unit. For those who want a modern five speed, kits are readily available to use a Ford Sierra, Nissan or Toyota gearbox
with appropriate adapters and bits. Handling Improvements To improve handling, stiffer springs, improved bushings, larger anti-roll bars and uprated shocks are all good options if planned
and matched properly. Stiffer front anti-roll bars from GTs or 1977-[180 roadsters can be added to cars that didnDit have them in the first place, or aftermarket units can be installed. There is
some controversy regarding their effectiveness, but rear anti-roll bars (standard in 1977-C180) can be added to earlier cars. Fitting factory 1977-080 bars to earlier cars requires welding and
serious thoughtClaftermarket units are an easier choice. MGBs have a fairly firm ride in their stock configuration, so itCIs advisable to drive a car that has had a stiffened suspension installed
before diving into the job.MGB Rubber-bumper cars can be lowered in the front by changing out the springs or swapping to a chrome-bumper carCls front crossmember. The rear height can be
changed with lowering blocks, re-arched springs, or some cutting and welding. Chrome-bumper cars can be lowered by changing springs, too, but expect to leave an exhaust system or two by
the curbCithese cars are pretty low already. Brake upgrades usually consist of improved friction materials, but drilled and slotted rotors are available, as well as uprated V8 units.
Stainless-steel flexible line kits are a worthwhile addition. For early cars, upgrades to dual-circuit manual or power brakes are a matter of bolting in the parts from later cars.MGBGT Many
people like to install wire wheels in place of the original discs. This again is a matter of sourcing the parts from a car originally equipped with wire wheels. To do so requires the entire rear axle
and the front hubs. There are some aftermarket bolt-on versions that require less work. (See the July (103 issue of Classic Motorsports for more details on this.) Most of the current alloy wheel
choices are eight-spoke Minilite replicas, available in both four-lug and knock-off configurations. There are several manufacturers of varying quality and price, so shopping around can be helpful
Several types of out-of-production alloy wheels often show up on eBay and at swap meets, but have them checked for cracks and other flaws before putting them on your car. Finally, the shares
its bolt pattern with Datsun Z cars and some Saabs, so some alloy wheels that fit these cars will also fit the .MGBMGB Cosmetics and Comfort Many interior parts from early cars will bolt into
later models and vice versa. Seats are all interchangeable. Updating the glove boxless pillow dash to a 1972-0176 glove box dash is a bolt-on replacement, although the fresh-air vents wont
work unless some sheetmetal surgery is performed. Technically, the 1977-C180 dash will fit all post-1967 cars, but the wiring will have to be updated to make the gauges work. The 1972-0176
console with armrest and radio opening can be added to 1968-0171 cars, and an aftermarket armrest/console is also available. Three different types of top bows were available for the soft-tops
and are all interchangeable. Depending on the types of bows used, there are several top options, with the zip-out rear-window model from later cars the most popular. Top kits can also be
sourced in vinyl, canvas and mohair. The aftermarket offers upgraded interior kits, usually trimmed in leather. There are woodgrain dash accent kits, a variety of steering wheels, and even
power windows available to make the as comfortable and plush as a modern commuter.MGB On the exterior, grilles and taillight assemblies can be mixed and matched on chrome-bumpered
cars to provide the desired look. Rubber-bumper to chrome-bumper conversions are possible, but welding and paintwork is required. While most of these changes are simple bolt-ons, its
worth checking around to make sure the desired part will fit the specific car without major work. As a general rule, bolt-on interchangeability is straightforward within these three categories:
1962-0167, 1968-1174 and 1975-0180. Jumping between the categories usually requires more effort. For example, a 1970 engine will fit any of the 1968-0174 cars with no additional work.
However, to install it in a 1964 car will require some gearbox and starter modifications. Putting it into a 1980 car will require front engine plate and motor-mount changes. Since MGBs derive
their value more from condition than originality, updating the cars or making tasteful modifications is an excellent way to make them more enjoyable. Keep watching these pages in future
issues for details on many of these updates. What's this? If you're reading this, you've probably seen these odd links with funny names somewhere on the site and want to know what they're
all about. Well, prepare to feel a bit more Net savvy. Those links are what the geeks call "social networks." Social networking sites allow you to store and share links and pages across the
Intemet. It's like taking your bookmarks list and being able to see it from any computer. Even better, social networks allow you to steer friends, relatives, colleagues and pretty much anyone
else to the cool stuff you've found, so they have something better to do online than watching the skateboarding squirrel video on YouTube for the thirtieth time. You're making the world a
better place. The only catch is that while all the social networks are free, you do have to register. Each site has a slightly different focus, so take a look through the links and see which service
suits you best. Like this story? This story originally appeared in the May 2004 issue of Classic Motorsports. Each issue of Classic Motorsports is full of great stories like this one, so if you'd like
these stories to come straight to you, . If you're not sure yet, and we'll send you the next issue at no charge. click here to subscribe now request a free issue of Classic Motorsports

 

 

It