8 External links [] edit History of the hypothesis The hypothesis, as originally proposed by in 1844, included , , , , and . Subsequently, Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic were grouped together,
on account of their especially similar features, while Finno-Ugric and Samoyedic were grouped as Uralic. Two contrasting language families were thereby formed, but the similarities between
them led to their retention in a common grouping, named Ural-Altaic. Altaic Matthias Castr n Finno-Ugric Samoyedic Turkic Mongolic Tungusic The Ural-Altaic family was widely accepted by
linguists who studied Uralic and Altaic until well into the 20th century. More recently, they have almost universally rejected it, although for very different reasons. (See below, "Relationship
between Uralic and Altaic.) [] edit Relationship between Uralic and Altaic The Altaic language family was generally accepted by linguists from the late 19th century up to the 1960s, but since
then has been in dispute, and the dispute is not yet resolved. For simplicity's sake, the following discussion assumes the validity of the Altaic language family, although for linguists who do not
accept Altaic a relation of Altaic to Uralic is obviously a non-starter, though some part of "Altaic" (e.g. Turkic) might be related to Uralic, in theory. It is important to distinguish two senses in
which Uralic and Altaic might be related. First, do Uralic and Altaic have a demonstrable ? genetic relationship Second, if they do have a demonstrable genetic relationship, do they form a valid
linguistic ? For example, and have a genetic relationship via , but they do not form a valid taxon within the Indo-European language family, whereas in contrast Iranian and do via , a daughter
language of Proto-Indo-European that subsequently calved into Indic and Iranian. In other words, showing genetic relationship does not suffice to establish a language family, such as the
proposed Ural-Altaic family; it is also necessary to consider the family tree of the languages concerned to determine which language goes where. taxon Germanic Iranian Proto-Indo-European
Indic Indo-Iranian This distinction is often overlooked but is fundamental to the genetic classification of languages (Greenberg 2005). [] edit Evidence for a genetic relationship Some linguists
point out strong similarities in the pronouns of Uralic and Altaic languages. Since pronouns are among the elements of language most resistant to change and it is very rare if not unheard-of for
one language to replace its pronouns wholesale with those of another, these similarities, if accepted as real, would be strong evidence for genetic relationship. Other observations are that both
Uralic and Altaic languages have , are in structure (stringing suffixes, prefixes or both onto ), use word order, and lack . However, similarities such as these do not constitute evidence of genetic
relationship on their own, as they may be the result of or coincidence. Thus other linguists argue that these typological similarities do not demonstrate a genetic relationship between Uralic and
Altaic, ascribing these similarities instead to coincidence or mutual influence resulting in . vowel harmony agglutinating roots SOV grammatical gender typological regional influence convergence
[citation needed [] edit Vocabulary of common origin This section requires . expansion To demonstrate the existence of a language family, it is necessary to find words that trace back to a
common proto-language. Shared vocabulary alone does not show a relationship, as it may be loaned from one language to another or through the language of a third party. cognate There are
shared words between, for example, Turkic and Ugric languages, because borrowing has occurred. However, it has been difficult to find proto-Ural-Altaic words across both language families.
Such words would be found in all branches of the Uralic and Altaic trees and should follow regular sound changes from the proto language to known modern languages. In addition, regular
sound changes from Proto-Ural-Altaic to give Proto-Uralic and Proto-Altaic words should be found to demonstrate the existence of a Ural-Altaic vocabulary. So far, none of such words have been
unambiguously demonstrated. In contrast, about 200 Uralic words are known and universally accepted. [] edit Evidence for a Ural-Altaic taxon The vowel-harmony argument has sometimes
been used to justify the necessity of a Ural-Altaic family, but vowel harmony is found in other nearby languages as well, including and , as well as in various languages of Africa and the
Americas. Furthermore, vowel harmony is a typological feature, and, according to the predominant opinion among linguists, typological features do not provide evidence for genetic relationship.
Chukchi Nivkh Some linguists maintain that Uralic and Altaic are related through a larger family, such as or , within which Uralic and Altaic are no more closely related to each other than either
is to any other member of the proposed family, for instance than Uralic or Altaic is to Indo-European (e.g. Greenberg 2000:17). Eurasiatic Nostratic [] edit Summary In summary, there are
the following differences of opinion among linguists who have treated of this question: Some view Altaic as valid, others as not. Among those who view Altaic as valid, some believe it is
related to Uralic, but does not form a taxon with it, the two being related at a higher level only, such as the proposed Eurasiatic family. Although the Ural-Altaic family was formerly widely
accepted, today it has almost no adherents. This does not mean, however, that a genetic relationship between Uralic and Altaic is generally rejected; rather, this is a subject on which linguists
disagree. The predominance of opinion favors an absence of relationship, but the numerous dissents from this view by specialists of note (e.g. and ) prevent one from speaking of a consensus
of opinion either for or against a genetic relationship between Uralic and Altaic. In contrast, a consensus of opinion does exist against the validity of a Ural-Altaic taxon.[] citation needed 8j m
Collinder Michael Fortescue [] citation needed [] edit State of the question In his , co-authored with Anna V. Dybo and Oleg A. Mudrak, characterized the Ural-Altaic hypothesis as "an idea now
completely discarded" (2003:8).Altaic Etymological Dictionary Sergei Starostin Angela Marcantonio (2002), however, argues that the and are no more closely related to each other than either
is to Turkic, thereby positing a grouping very similar to Ural-Altaic or indeed to Castr n's original Altaic proposal. Finno-Permic Ugric languages [1] [] edit Association with nationalist politics
There are also political motivations that have been unscientifically used to support or oppose this hypothesis. The Swedes had a political motivation to present the Sami as "Asian", or an
inferior race". A linguistic connection was integral in demonstrating an Asian ancestry. Particularly important proponents of the politically motivated idea of "Finnic race" were and . Their work
was based on : by finding "childlike" or features in the skulls of Uralic-speaking peoples, they reached the conclusion that Uralic speakers are racially Mongolian, and recommended policies of
colonization, eugenics and racial hygiene. This was supported by the Swedish government: the government funded ("Institute of Race Biology"), where Lundborg produced his research. The
Ural-Altaic theory was the consensus in the 19th century but is no longer widely accepted. Herman Lundborg Gustav von D ben craniometry neotenous [2] Statens institut f r rasbiologi Though
the direction of language and population spread do not necessarily correlate to each other, DNA studies have shown that despite the geographic isolation of the Finnish and Sami peoples they
are unambiguously related to other Europeans. This disproves the other part of Lundborg's hypothesis, a general genetic relationship. Similarly to Indo-European, Uralic languages are spoken
by a genetically heterogeneous population. The existence of a Ural-Altaic stock cannot be expressed genetically but rather by non-genetic social factors, the field of genetic science is often
confused with the topic of language origins for the purpose of creating sensationalistic rhetoric for both sides of the debate and often to support racial propaganda. [] edit Overview of the
languages involved [] edit Uralic languages The Uralic family tree has three main groups, , , and . Finno-Permic Ugric Samoyedic The Ugric languages are , , and . Hungarian Khanty Mansi
The Samoyedic languages are subdivided into a northern and a southern group. The northem group consists of , ,, and . The southern group consists of (Kamas), , and . Enets Nenets or Yurak
Nganasan or Tavgy/Tawgi Yurats Kamassian Mator Selkup A relationship of Uralic to the has been proposed. Yukaghir languages [] edit Altaic languages The language families classified as
Altaic include, , , , and . Prior to the 1950s, the inclusion of Korean was considered radical; prior to the 1970s, that of Japonic. Both are now accepted as Altaic by the great majority of
Altaicists. (See .) Turkic Mongolic Tungusic Korean Japonic Altaic languages