Hydropolitics in the Nile Basin From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is Please by rewriting it in an .written like and may require . a personal reflection or essay cleanup help
improve it encyclopedic style (December 2007) East Africa and the Nile basin The River is subject to political interactions. It is the world's longest river flowing 6,700 kilometers through ten
countries in northeastern Africa , , (DRC), ,, ,, and with varying climates. Considering the basin area of the Nile, Sudan has the largest size (1.9 million km ) whereas, of the four major
tributaries to the Nile, three originate from Ethiopia - the , and . Nile Rwanda Burundi Democratic Republic of the Congo Tanzania Kenya Uganda Ethiopia Sudan Egypt Blue Nile Sobat Atbara
Contents [] edit Geography The following table illustrates each country s dependence on the source of water that is provided by the Nile River, and how researchers estimate a decrease in
water availability to these countries, due largely to an increase in the countries populations. [1] Country GNP per capita 1996 (US $) Population below the poverty line (1US$/day) (PPP) (%)
Per capita water availability 1990 (m ) Per capita water availability 2025 (m ) Burundi Further information: Water politics Egypt has a natural historical right on the Nile River, and
principles of its acquired rights have been a focal point of negotiations with other upstream states. The fact that this right exists means that any perceived reduction of the Nile water supply to
Egypt is tampering with its national security and thus could trigger potential conflict. There have been occasions when Egypt has threatened to go to war over Nile water. This is has been
always because of a threat to Egypt's water supply by neighbouring states. Sudan also has hydraulic potential and has created four dams in the last century. This has resulted in the
development so far of 18,000 km of irrigated land, making Sudan the second most extensive user of the Nile, after Egypt. [2] While Egypt is highly dependent on the Nile, there are factors
that prevent the necessity of conflict over the distribution of the Nile's water supply. For example, Egypt no longer has such an agriculturally-dependent economy. Further, Egypt is already
dependent on virtual water imports, and we can see that pursuing this as an alternative may prove an efficient way of avoiding water conflict. On the other hand, consider the riparian state of
Ethiopia, whose tributaries supply about 86 percent of the waters of the Nile, conflict could arise from the fact that Ethiopia has limited hydraulic power and only uses about one percent of the
Nile. With this in mind, some academics argue that it is the fact that other riparian states simply do not have the resources to enter into conflict that conflict has not yet occurred. However, this
is not the only reason that conflict has not occurred. Governments, over the years, have put agreements and treaties into place so that conflict can be controlled. [3] [] edit Egypt and the Nile
 Egyptian civilization has sustained itself utilizing water management and agriculture for some 5,000 years in the Nile River valley. The Egyptians practiced basin , a form of water
management adapted to the natural rise and fall of the Nile River. Since around 3000 B.C., the Egyptians constructed earthen banks to form flood basins of various sizes that were regulated by
sluices to redirect floodwater into the basin where it would sit until the soil was saturated, the water was then drained, and crops planted. This method of agriculture did not deplete the soil of
nutrients or cause salinization problems experienced by modern agricultural methods. In 1869, the was opened linking the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, creating an international
transportation route and linking the resources of Egypt to international trade. irrigation [4] Suez Canal [] edit Egyptian Colonization In 1875 the government of bought the indebted Egyptian
ruler 44% shareholding in the for 4 million to secure control of this strategic waterway, a channel for shipping between the United Kingdom and India since its opening six years earlier under
Emperor . Joint Anglo-French financial control over Egypt ended in outright British occupation in 1882. In 1898, the British reconquered Sudan, cleared vegetation along the Nile River and
created alternative drainage paths to divert water and improve flow. Conservative Benjamin Disraeli Ismail's Suez Canal Napoleon III [] edit Conflict management [] edit Colonial Treaties
Effecting Nile Water Use Colonial treaties have resulted in inequitable rights to the use of Nile water between the countries of the Nile Basin. April 15, 1891 Article III of the Anglo-Italian
Protocol. Article IIT states that "the Italian government engages not to construct on the Atbara River, in view of irrigation, any work which might sensibly modify its flow into the Nile". The
language used in this article was too vague to provide clear property rights or rights to the use of water. May 15, 1902 Article III of the . Article three states His Majesty the Emperor Menilik IL,
King of Kings of Ethiopia, engages himself towards the Government of His Britannic Majesty not to construct or allow to be constructed any work across the Blue Nile, Lake Tana, or the Sobat,
which would arrest the flow of their waters except in agreement with His Britannic Majesty s Government and the Government of Sudan" This agreement has become one of the most contested
agreements over the use of the Nile waters. Treaty between Great Britain and Ethiopia May 9, 1906 Article III of the . Article III states "The Government of the independent state of the Congo
undertakes not to construct, or allow to be constructed, any work over or near the Semliki or Isango river which would diminish the volume of water entering Lake Albert except in agreement
with the Sudanese Government". Belgium signed this agreement on behalf of the Congo despite the agreement favoring only the downstream users of the Nile waters and restricting the people
of the Congo from accessing their part of the Nile. Agreement between Britain and the Government of the Independent State of the Congo December 13, 1906 Article 4(a) of the
(Britain-France-Italy). Article 4(a) states To act together... to safeguard; ... the interests of Great Britain and Egypt in the Nile Basin, more especially as regards the regulation of the waters of
that river and its tributaries (due consideration being paid to local interests) without prejudice to Italian interests". This treaty, in effect, denied Ethiopia its sovereign right over the use of its
own water. Ethiopia has rejected the treaty their military and political power was not sufficient to regain its use of the Nile water. Tripartite Treaty The 1925 exchange of notes between Britain
and Italy concerning Lake Tana which states "...Italy recognizes the prior hydraulic rights of Egypt and the Sudan... not to construct on the head waters of the Blue Nile and the White Nile (the
Sobat) and their tributaries and effluents any work which might sensibly modify their flow into the main river." Ethiopia opposed the agreement and notified both parties of its objections: "To
the Italian government: The fact that you have come to an agreement, and the fact that you have thought it necessary to give us a joint notification of that agreement, make it clear that your
intention is to exert pressure, and this in our view, at once raises a previous question. This question which calls for preliminary examination, must therefore be laid before the League of
Nations." "To the British government: The British Government has already entered into negotiations with the Ethiopian Government in regard to its proposal, and we had imagined that,
whether that proposal was cartied into effect or not, the negotiations would have been concluded with us; we would never have suspected that the British Government would come to an
agreement with another Government regarding our Lake." May 7, 1929 The Agreement between Egypt and Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. This agreement included: Egypt and Sudan utilize 48 and 4
billion cubic meters of the Nile flow per year, respectively; The flow of the Nile during January 20 to July 15 (dry season) would be reserved for Egypt; Egypt reserves the right to monitor the
Nile flow in the upstream countries; Egypt assumed the right to undertake Nile river related projects without the consent of upper riparian states. Egypt assumed the right to veto any
construction projects that would affect her interests adversely. In effect, this agreement gave Egypt complete control over the Nile during the dry season when water is most needed for
agricultural irrigation. It also severely limits the amount of water allotted Sudan and provides no water to any of the other riparian states. The 1959 Nile agreement between the Sudan and
Egypt for full control utilization of the Nile waters. This agreement included: The controversy on the quantity of average annual Nile flow was settled and agreed to be about 84 billion cubic
meters measured at Aswan High Dam, in Egypt. The agreement allowed the entire average annual flow of the Nile to be shard among the Sudan and Egypt at 18.5 and 55.5 billion cubic
meters, respectively. Annual water loss due to evaporation and other factors were agreed to be about 10 billion cubic meters. This quantity would be deducted from the Nile yield before share
was assigned to Egypt and Sudan. Sudan, in agreement with Egypt, would construct projects that would enhance the Nile flow by preventing evaporation losses in the Sudd swamps of the
White Nile located in the southem Sudan. The cost and benefit of same to be divided equally between them. If claim would come from the remaining riparian countries over the Nile water
resource, both the Sudan and Egypt shall, together, handle the claims. If the claim prevails and the Nile water has to be shared with another riparian state, that allocated amount would be
deducted from the Sudan s and Egypt s and allocations/shares in equal parts of Nile volume measured at Aswan. The agreement granted Egypt the right to constructs the Aswan High Dam
that can store the entire annual Nile River flow of a year. It granted the Sudan to construct the Rosaries Dam on the Blue Nile and, to develop other irrigation and hydroelectric power
generation until it fully utilizes its Nile share. A Permanent Joint Technical Commission to be established to secure the technical cooperation between them. Main article: Nile Basin Initiative
The (NBI) is a partnership among the Nile Riparian states that seeks to develop the river in a cooperative manner, share substantial socioeconomic benefits, and promote regional peace and
security . It was formally launched in February, 1999 by the water ministers of 9 countries that share the river-,,,,,,,, and the . Nile Basin Initiative Egypt Sudan Ethiopia Eritrea Uganda
Kenya Tanzania Burundi Rwanda Democratic Republic of Congo [] edit International Law Context Adopted by the at the 52nd conference held in Helsinki in August 1966, the rules govern use
of waters of an international drainage basin except as may be provided otherwise by convention, agreement or binding custom among the basin States. 1966 Helsinki Rules Intemational Law
Association 1995 SADC - Protocol on shared watercourse systems in the Southern African development community (SADC) region signed at Johannesburg, 28 August 1995 recognized the
following principals: Shared Watercourse System Protocol BEARING in mind the Helsinki Rules on uses of the waters of International Rivers and the work of the International Law Commission
on the non-navigational uses of international watercourses; RECOGNISING the relevant provisions of Agenda 21 of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the
concepts of environmentally sound management, sustainable development and equitable utilization of shared watercourse systems in the SADC Region; CONSIDERING the existing and
emerging socio-economic development programs in the SADC region and their impact on the environment; DESIROUS of developing close co-operation for judicious and coordinated utilization
of the resources of the shared watercourse systems in the SADC region; CONVINCED of the need for coordinated and environmentally sound development of the resources of shared
watercourse systems in the SADC region in order to support sustainable socio-economic development; RECOGNISING that there are as yet no regional conventions regulating common
utilization and management of the resources of shared watercourse systems in the SADC region; MINDFUL of the existence of other Agreements in the SADC region regarding the Common
utilization of certain watercourses. 1997 . United Nations Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses [] edit Effects of Treaties and Policies on Nile Basin
Water Use During the colonial period, Britain effectively controlled the Nile through its military presence in Africa. Since Egyptian independence, Sudan has renegotiated with Egypt over the
use of the Nile waters. The 1959 agreement between Sudan and Egypt allocated the entire average annual flow of the Nile to be shared among the Sudan and Egypt at 18.5 and 55.5 billion
cubic meters respectfully, but ignored the rights to water of the remaining eight Nile countries. Ethiopia contributes 80% of the total Nile Flow, but by the 1959 agreement is entitled to none of
its resources. Since the early 1990 s, Ethiopia has successfully countered Egyptian and Sudanese resistance to water development projects in Ethiopia to increase irrigation and hydroelectric
potential. [7] [] edit Prospects of cooperation in the Nile Basin Egypt continues to be the primary user of Nile water. According to Swain and Fadel, political instability and poverty in the other
nine riparian countries has limited their ability to move toward socioeconomic development of the Nile. According to Lemma, the greatest question facing the Nile riparian states is: Will the help
them overcome the unjust and unequal distribution of Nile water resources? [8] [9] Nile Basin Initiative [10] [] edit Other issues in hydropolitics [] edit Pollution of the Nile River While most
of the river s water quality is within acceptable levels, there are several hot spots mostly found in the irrigation canals and drainages. Sources of pollutants are from agricultural, industrial, and
household waste. There are 36 industries that discharge their pollution sources directly into the Nile, and 41 into irrigation canals. These types of industries are: chemical, electrical,
engineering, fertilizers, food, metal, mining, oil and soap, pulp and paper, refractory, textile and wood. There are over 90 agricultural drains that discharge into the Nile that also include
industrial wastewater. The water exceeds the European Community Standards of fecal contamination and there is a high salinization and saline intrusion in the delta. happens when there s a
build up of salts in the soil. The soil can t retain water which prevents anything from growing. Saline intrusion is when the ground is saturated with saltwater. The northeast Nile Delta region has
a high incident rate of that is believed to be from high levels of heavy metals and organchlorine found in the soil and water. Exposure to is most commonly known through smoking, though it is
believed that in this region, the exposure is from contact through the heavy metals and pesticides found in the soil and water. (a disease caused by parasitic worms) has been found in irrigation
canals along with benthic forming mats. [11] Salinization pancreatic cancer pesticides cadmium [12] Schistosomiasis cyanobacteria [1] [13] [] edit Irrigation Canals is the largest consumer of
water in Egypt using about 85% of available water. Drainage water from the agricultural fields contains pollutants such as pesticide residues, toxic organic and inorganic pollutants, salts and
treated and untreated domestic wastewater. In the East - Delta drains - Faraskour, Serw and Hadous, samples of the water contained high levels of hookworms and other intestinal helminth
eggs. In villages where the only available water is from irrigation canals, women use the water for domestic purposes and also dump the used water back into the drainages. In some areas, low
water levels don t reach the waterways, so farmers build illegal waterwheels to get the water up the canals to irrigate their land. Lack of drainage canals and the enforcement by officials to
address these problems contribute to pollution of land and water. Villagers drinking polluted water have been affected with kidney and liver diseases. Animal manure, dredged sediments from
drains and sludge for fertilizer are leached and the contaminants are a major source of pollution. Agricultural drainage water reuse is used by farmers legally and illegally. Improper irrigation
and lack of education on effective irrigation methods and crop production contributes to crop failure and polluting of canals. In areas where there is no formal operational structure for pumping
water of individual diesel pumps, the tail-end users usually are not getting enough water to maintain crops. Agriculture [14] [15] [16] [17] [] edit Government and Farmers There are
twenty-five agencies, under seven ministries that are involved in maintaining water quality, yet their communication and data sharing between agencies is underdeveloped. Water User
Associations which are non-governmental associations of farmers who organize an irrigation process of all agricultural land, maintain diesel pumps and deal with conflicts between farmers and
water management. More information on Water User Associations can be found . They have been around since 1988, but have lacked structure and the inclusion of women. Women are seen as
contributors to pollution of irrigation canals since they wash clothes, dishes and animals in the drainages. The lack of planning and corruption within governmental departments, the neglecting
of concerns and disbursement of low-quality land to the poor, and the improper education of safe handling methods and improper irrigation and crop management for men and women, all
contribute to poor water quality. Though money is a major factor in improving these areas, in the case of erasing corruption and improving interdepartmental communication, stricter rules and
enforcement of them is something that can be done immediately. Increasing Water User Associations (WUA) and establishing a communication chain between these associations and
government departments is recommended. Appointing field supervisors for designated areas to oversee WUA s and educate farmers on irrigation methods (like that applies water to the root
zone which can reduce water use by 30 to 60 percent), effective water distribution during crop cycle, and soil management. Field supervisors can also monitor water levels, check on the
maintenance of pumps and report on drainage structures. The World Bank has financed the agricultural drainage program in Egypt since 1970. This program equips agricultural land with
subsurface drains. These drains are made of plastic pipes produced in government-owned plants in the Nile Valley and Delta. Landholders pay for the installation of drains on a 20 year
interest-free annual installments. Subsurface drainage has shown to improve soil conditions and crop yield. Educating farmers on the functioning of these subsurface drainages are needed to
prevent a disruption of water supply to all connected fields. Since these drainages can t be seen on the surface, if a farmer closes a drain to keep more water in his field it will prevent water
from reaching users beyond. [18] here [19] drip irrigation crop rotation [20] [] edit Solutions Since agricultural lands are not charged for water, but are for irrigation and drainage
improvements, WUA s should be responsible for payment as it would produce a group responsibility of all members. Monitoring of water and soil quality should be left to the WUA s and reported
to field supervisors which then report to the Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) office. Since the effort to produce clean water will take time, steps that can be taken as short
term results are: Tapping into shallow wells for drinking water obtained from fields and unlined canals; since the soil acts as a filter it can remove contaminants. Consulting with farmers when
designing irrigation systems for optimal performance should be taken into consideration. (IWMI, 2006) Informing the public of safe handling of food methods, the use of manure and mulching
crop residue, less evasive tillage and rotating crops that don t need the same nutrients to improve the soils ability to hold water, and switching to short duration crops to decrease water
consumption is advised. Proper application of reused drainage water during a crops growth cycle is optimal. In Giza, they have the largest governorate discharge of agricultural, industrial and
domestic sewage that goes directly into the Nile through three drains without treatment. A solution is to construct three wastewater treatment plants with activated sludge and high capacity . is
the cheapest technology that reduces and biological oxygen demand (BOD) concentrations and switching the Abu-Rawash treatment plant from primary to activated sludge. Public and industrial
awareness should also be promoted to reduce illegal dumping. Public awareness can help achieve efficient water usage and cleaner water. Increased monitoring of discharged areas and
enforcing fines of illegal dumping should be integrated in already established government offices. Monitoring of these enforcements should be done by an outside source like the World Bank
since they have provided Egypt with financing for improvements of water usage. If the World Bank finds the government has not enforced the established fines, then they can add exceptions to
their loan agreements that would create incentives for enforcement of fines. Activated sludge E. coli [21] [] edit Criticisms Some scholars downplay the geopolitical importance of water. Jan
Selby, for instance, argues that whilst oil has been a principal cause of regional economic growth, adequate water supply has been a product. Selby claims the 'water wars' is also weak in terms
of failed forecasts, and that conflict in the last century was more often due to oil than water. (The 1990-1991 is an example of this). [3] Gulf War Others argue that, beside water, they are
more outstanding foreign policy concems which relate to ideological, economic and strategic relations with neighbouring states, (and with outside powers), and access to 'goods' such as foreign
aid and investment, oil revenues and remittances, illegal economies and military hardware make water conflict a marginal concer. [3] [] edit References M Chatteri et al. (2002) . Hampshire,
Ashgate Publishing Ltd. p 146  Conflict Management of Water Resources T Tafesse. (2001). The Nile Question: Hydropolitics, Legal Wrangling, Modus Vivendi and Perspectives. London,
Transaction Publishers  J Selby. The Geopolitics of Water in the Middle East: Fantasies and Realities in the Third World Quarterly, Vol. 26, No. 2. pp 329-349 (2005) ab c S Postel.(1999)
Egypt's Nile Valley Basin Irrigation .  http://www.waterhistory.org/histories/nile/t1.html K. Mekonnen (1999)The Defects and Effects of Past Treaties and Agreements on the Nile River Waters:
Whose Faults Were they? .  http://www.ethiopians.com/abay/engin.html FAO Corporate Document Repository. (1995)Protocol on shared watercourse systems in the Souther African
development community (SADC) region signed at Johannesburg, 28 August 1995. . ~ http://www.fao.org/docrep/W7414B/w7414bOn.htm A. Swain. (2002) SAIS Review. . 22,2. pp. 293-308.
* The Nile Basin Initiative: Too Many Cooks, Too Little Broth A. Swain. (2002)SAIS Review. The Nile Basin Initiative: Too Many Cooks, Too Little Broth. 22,2. pp. 293-308.  M. El Fadel
(2003)Journal of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Education: The Nile Basin: a Case Study in Surface Water Conflict Resolution. 32,7. pp. 107-117. * S. Lemma. (2001) Cooperating on the
Nile not a Zero-sum Game. UN Chronicle. 3. p. 65. * NBI, 2005.Nile Basin Initiative, 2005. Nile Basin National Water Quality Monitoring Baseline Study Report for Egypt * Soliman, A, et al
2005. Environmental Contamination and Toxicology: Geographical Clustering of Pancreatic Cancers in the Northeast Nile Delta Region of Egypt:  Khairy, A. 1998, Eastern Mediterranean
Health Journal: Water Contact Activities and Schistosomiasis Infection in menoufia, Nile Delta, Egypt: Volume 4, Issue 1 pp. 100-106 * Nile Basin Initiative, 2005. Nile Basin National Water
Quality Monitoring Baseline Study Report for Egypt  Water Policy Program, 2002. Survey of Nile System Pollution Sources Report No. 64.  Land Center for Human Rights, 2005. Water
Problems in the Egyptian Countryside Between Corruption and Lack of Planning, Case Studies of Two Egyptian Villages, Land and Farmers Series, Issue No. 32  IPRID Secretariat, 2005. Rapid
Assessment Study Towards Integrated Planning of Irrigation and Drainage in Egypt Final Report 2005 * Water Policy Program, 2002. Survey of Nile System Pollution Sources Report No.64. 
El Awady, N. 2005 Government-Imposed Non-Governmental Water Associations * A Solution or Just More Trouble? September 25, 2005 

http://www. islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid= 11579624411 26&pagename=Zone-English-HealthScience%2FHSELayout Knegt, J. 2000. Drainage in Developing Countries: A
Review of Institutional Arrangements. Wageningen University The Netherlands * Said, A. 1999, Analysis of Nile Water Polluton Control Strategies: A Case Study Using The Decision Support
system for Water Quality Management, JCID-CHID ~