Jump to: , navigation search A is an composed of full-time career who stand over, in other words, who do not disband during times of peace. They differ from who are activated only during
such times as or . Standing armies tend to be better equipped, better trained, and better prepared for emergencies, defensive deterrence and particularly wars.standing army army soldiers
army reserves war natural disasters [1] The army of ancient Rome is considered to have been a standing army during some of the republic period and especially towards the end of the republic
following the in 107BC. Here Marius abolished the old system of raising a citizen army based on property and replaced it with a professional army based on a period of service. This continued
into the . Marian Reforms Roman Empire The Hungarian king had a standing army from the 1460's called the , which was an unusually big army in its age, accomplishing a series of victories
and capturing parts of , (1485) and parts of . The first 'modern' standing armies in Europe were the of the , formed in the fourteenth century AD. In western Europe the first standing army was
established by in the fifteenth century. The establishment of a standing army in in 1685 by and the later assumption of control over the British Colonies in America by the were controversial,
leading to distrust of peacetime armies too much under the power of the , versus , resulting in . Matthias Corvinus Fekete Sereg Austria Vienna Bohemia Janissaries Ottoman Empire [2] [3]
Charles VII of France [] citation needed Britain King James II British Army head of state civilian control of the military tyranny In his influential work (published 1776), economist comments
that standing armies are a sign of modemizing society as modern warfare requires increased skill and discipline of regularly trained standing armies. Since the eighteenth century standing
armies have been an integral part of the defense of the majority of more economically developed countries. The Wealth of Nations Adam Smith [4] In , and the , there was a sentiment of
distrust of a standing army not in civilian control. In Great Britain, this led to the which reserves authority over a standing army to the Parliament, not the King, and more nuanced in the United
States, led to the () which reserves by virtue of "" similar authority to Congress, instead of to the President. The President, however, retains of the armed forces when they are raised, as . Great
Britain British Colonies in America British Bill of Rights U.S. Constitution Article 1, Section 8 power of the purse command commander-in-chief [1] One critique of standing armies is that they
tend to create more opportunities for corruption to become institutionalized in law, persistent organizations, or ongoing practice. [5]