Benefits of Fiberglass Windows: Exceeding American (AAMA101-93) industry standards making Fiberglass is the most energy efficient window framing product available. Thermal
Performance: For Maximum protection from the elements, Fiberglass has virtually no contraction or expansion (see resistance chart above).*Dimensional Stability: The new energy codes
in affect today are now specifying Fiberglass Windows to be installed in buildings over three stories or more. These windows are now replacing the old materials such as vinyl and aluminum
which do not pass energy codes.Commercial Applications: Provides 8 times greater sheer strength when compared to PVCStructural Strength: . It expands and contracts an incredible 800%
less than vinyl.Climate Durability (both hot and cold): Fiberglass having low expansion and contraction, in tur resists glass seal failure. (see expansion chart above) Resistance to Glass Seal
Failure: _ Fiberglass can be painted in a variety of colors.Paintability: With low conduction of heat, and the stability in Fiberglass, they can also be painted in a variety of dark colors.Reliability
of Dark Colors: Fiberglass has the strength to be installed at great heights, in different window types and with its paintability factor, the design options are endless.Design Flexibility: Being
durable and resistant to weathering, Fiberglass has minimum maintenance requirements.Low Maintenance: Fiberglass not only features the lowest embodied energy (low energy consumption
in lineal production) when compared to other common window frame materials but also provides the longest life expectancy. This has led experts to recognize Fiberglass as the most
environmentally friendly window system. Also, fiberglass has self-extinguishing capabilities in case of fire, and unlike P.V.C., it does not emit toxic fumes. Fiberglass frames offers dimensionally
stable tolerances which provide consistent quality during the production phase.Environmental Impact: Such as wood, vinyl and aluminum, can result in problems with warping, rotting,
cracking and shrinkage, bowing, Lack of brittleness or deterioration of surface finish. Fiberglass has the highest resistance to warping & twisting ensures. Frame & sash comers will not separate
or crack Durability is one of the basic characteristics of pultruded Fiberglass composites. Fiberglass can be subjected to harsh weather conditions and stand the test of time. Throughout any
climatic environment, fiberglass stays rigid and stable without loss of physical properties.Resistance to Rotting, Splitting, Warping, Corroding: