Cedar posts for long service. Available in many disigns, using round or square posts. Lampposts The Lamppost, a most picturesque centerpiece t light your driveway, walkway or yard
area. Choose from several post styles. Commercial heights to 23 feet. Sheds The Country Carriage From the charming slope and protective overhang of the carriage roof to the quiet
traditional styling, you will love The Country Carriage shed. In addition to its obvious eye-appeal, this style features a full 7-foot front wall. Standard & optional features are shown below. The
Country Carriage style is available in all sizes ranging grom 6! x 8' to 10'x 20'. The Traditional Gambrel_Do you need more head room or storage space? The Traditional Gambrel offers all the
fine features you have come to expect from a Reeds Ferry small building. With the Traditional Gambrel, we added the bonus of extra height and a more usable upper area. In addition, be sure
to review all of the standard & optional features shown below. Keep in mind that this style easily accommodates an optional loft...add one on! The Traditional Gambrel style is available in all
sizes ranging grom 8' x 8' to 12x 20'. The American Classic Stylish and practical, the American Classic is the perfect solution for your utility shed or storage needs. This budget-fitting style
has been the popular choice of many customers. Standard & optional features are shown below. The American Classic style is available in all sizes ranging grom 6! x 8! to 12' x 20'. Quality
Built into Every Building - Standard Features: 2x6 pressure-treated floor joists, 16" on center 5/8 top-quality flooring 2x4, 16" on center framing Tongue and groove siding Heavy-duty roof
trusses, 16" on center Roof sheathed with 1/2" exterior grade plywood Aluminum drip edge Asphalt roof shingles with 20-year limited warranty Aluminum windows with screens Three light
windows hinged to open Window box and shutters Solid pine door diagonally braced with 2x4s and three 6" heavy-duty zinc-plated back hinges Options on ALL Buildings: Plywood Partitions
Additional Window(s) Additional Door(s), 3' or 5' Custom Windows Arch Doors, 3! or 5' Additional Wall Height Custom Hole in Floor for Pool Filter Ramps Cupola Pressure-Treated Plywood
Flooring Loft , Pergolas & Trellises Garden Arbors Here are just some examples of different styles of Arbors, Pergolas, and Trellises that we carry. We are constantly updating our products, so
give us a call or stop by to see them in person. Pre-made pressure treated, cedar or vinyl arbors and trellises. The Garden Arch is available in the traditional 40" wide by 6' 8" high or the more
spacious 6' wide opening. Sturbridge