Save hundreds with Esurance. Compare rates online in minutes. www.esurance.com Offering competitive rates save up to $600 a year. Join Today. www.USAA.com - Out-of-State Residents
Stationed in Virginia Military life is rewarding, but it can be difficult to take care of your civilian business when you're stationed outside of your home state. Things like renewing your driver's
license or registration could be tricky, but the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) keeps things simple for military personnel. Virginia Residents Stationed Out of State Driver's
License Extension If you are on active duty in the military and stationed outside of Virginia, you might not be able to get to a DMV office to renew your license. That's why the Virginia DMV
provides military extensions by mail. To request a military packet, visit the on Virginia's official DMV Web site. Then complete and sign the forms, and your extension will be taken care of. DMV
extensions are valid for up to five years. military page Registration Renewal After returning to Virginia, you have 60 days to renew your vehicle registration. If you are active-duty military and
you cannot visit a Virginia DMV customer service center before your registration expires, you may submit an and the appropriate to the address below: application for registration fee Titles and
Registration Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles P.O. Box 27412 (866) 368-5463 (804) 367-0538 Alternatively, you may renew by phone or with a major credit card (Visa, Discover, or
MasterCard). online Out-of-State Residents Stationed in Virginia If you are an active-duty Armed Forces member who is stationed in Virginia, you and your spouse, as well as your dependent
children age 16 and three months or older, can drive with valid licenses from out of state or from your home country. If you are the sole owner of your vehicle, you can drive it with valid
out-of-state plates. If your vehicle is co-owned, all owners must be active duty military personnel, or else you must in Virginia. You do not need a Virginia driver's license to register your
vehicle. register the vehicle Related Topics