Wildflower Foray Schedule of Hikes Every nature lover will find something to enjoy during the 23 annual Wildflower Foray: wildflower and bird walks, a Lake Monroe boat trip, history, owl
calling, nature photography, medicinal plants, and a geocache-style "treasure hunt." Experience the sights and sounds of spring in the forests of southem Indiana.rd FRIDAY EVENTS April 25,
2008 #1 Wildflowers at Selma Steele 9:00 a.m. Join wildflower author Kay Yatskievych, T.C. Steele staff member Davie Kean and DNR Nature Preserves
Ecologist Tom Swinford, for a wildflower trek through the Selma N. Steele State Nature Preserve. Participants may choose a 2 to 3-hour walk on a rugged but established wildflower trail
through a valley in the preserve, or a moderate alternate walk along the ridge. Meet atLocation A #2 9:00 a.m.Focus on Wildflowers Award-winning photographer Jeffrey
Hammond and BirdCountry.US Director Jeff Riegel will lead an easy 2-hour excursion to photograph glorious spring wildflowers. Bring your camera and plenty of film (or pixels) to capture
images of spring beauties, woodland phlox, and much more. Limited to 25 people, so Call T.C. Steele State Historic Site at (812) 988-2785 to register. Participants will carpool to a nearby
wildflower hotspot. Meet at ..pre-registration is requiredLocation A #3 Spring Promise 0 p.m. The soil smells fresh and the air is cool. Both promise great "plant
watching as the group winds its way around the cool backwaters of Lake Strahl. DNR Interpretive Naturalist Jim Eagleman will be your leader for this 2-hour rugged hike. Meet

 

at Location F #4 1:00 p.m.Recording Your Experience Remember what you see by making a simple nature journal to record your observations. Try some easy
writing and drawing exercises to start, then continue throughout the Foray. Join artist Phyllis Taylor and DNR Naturalist Terri Warne for an easy, 2-hour program and walk. Meet at . Location A
45 3:30 p.m.Waldrip Cabin Hike Join Naturalist Stacy Duke and Forester Teena Ligman of Hoosier National Forest on a 2-hour moderate hike to historic Waldrip Cabin

This now-abandoned cabin was built in 1877, and is nestled among the ridgetops near Lake Monroe. Meet at .Location 8 #6 4:00 p.m. How Does Your Rain Garden Grow? What are rain
gardens? How are they created? How do they function? What native plants can you use to create one? Monroe Co. Engineer Todd Stevenson and Cathy Meyer of Monroe Co. Parks &
Recreation will begin with an indoor program, then lead you outdoors to explore a working rain garden. Meet at .Location] #7 Timberdoodles & Peepers 8:00 p.m. The
American Woodcock, or imberdoodle,is the focus of our evening outing. Participants will hike a short distance to hope-fully see and hear a unique spring display flight. Along the way, enjoy a
chorus of spring peepers and other early season amphibians. Bring a lawn chair and flashlight, and meet DNR Naturalist Jim Eagleman and BirdCountry.US Director Jeff Riegel to carpool to a
local ight spot.nbsp; Meet at .Location A #8 8:00 p.m.Owls, Pals & Sores Here another evening outing: join DNR Interpretive Naturalist Susan Douglas around the
Friendship Circle campfire. Learn about owls, and meet a live owl from Retum to the Wild rehab program for injured birds. Then we will try to call in some wild owls to join the party. The
evening will end with toasted marshmallows and sores. Yum! Meet at .Location C SATURDAY EVENTS April 26, 2008 #9 7:00 a.m.Birds at T.C. Steele
Bring binoculars and field guides if you have them! Retired IU biology professor Don Whitehead will lead 2 2-hour, moderate hike in the forest around the Steele home and gardens. Expect to
find migrating warblers, tanagers, grosbeaks and thrushes searching for food in the budding oaks. Meet at .Location A #10 Indiana Forests: the Oak Bottleneck 9:00 a.m. The
largest study of its kind in Indiana is the focus of this moderate, 2-hour off-trail walk. Join BirdCountry.US Director Jeff Riegel, and see what is being done to determine the reactions of birds,
bats, salamanders, snakes, insects and plants, to different forest management practices. How can we best maintain biodiversity and regenerate our oak-hickory forests? Meet at to carpool to
a nearby site,Location A #11 Lake Monroe Backwaters 9:00 a.m. Take a boat trip with DNR Wildlife Specialist Rex Watters and Hoosier National Forest Naturalist Stacy Duke
to see wildflowers and wildlife along the lakeshore. Bring a life jacket if you have one, plus water and a sack lunchthe trip will last into the afternoon. Boats will stop at several spots to explore,
so wear boots and old clothes! Participants are limited to 25, so Call T.C, Steele SHS at (812) 988-2785 to reserve your seat. Meet at . pre-registration is required.Location  #12 Weird
Ravine Wander 10:00 a.m. Ever see a rock in a tree? ABIG rock in a TALL tree? How did it get there? All explanations will be considered, however weird. Now is your
chance to see this strange phenomenon for yourself, along with flowering dogwoods, redbuds, oaks, maples and many more. Join DNR Interpretive Naturalist Jim Eagleman for a rugged,
2-hour hike. Meet at .Location H #13 11:00 a.m.Wildflowers at Griffy Lake Beauty abounds at Griffy Lake Nature Preserve! The City of Bloomington Parks & Recreation invites
wildflower friends and fans to take a peek at the park host of short-lived, stunning springtime blooms. City park Program Specialist Kriste Lindberg will be your guide for this easy, 1 hour walk,
Meet at .Location M #14 1:00 p.m.Wild Hyacinth Hike Botanist Kirk Larson and Forester Teena Ligman of Hoosier National Forest will lead small groups on a moderate,
2-hour hike along a unique limestone ridge where wild hyacinths are common. This is a rich site with abundant wildflowers in the Charles C. Deam Wilderness Area. Participants are limited to

18, so Call the HNF office at (812) 275-5987 to register. Participants will carpool to this remote location. Meet at ..pre-registration is requiredLocation 8 #15 1:00 p.m.T.C.
Steele Treasure Hunt Go adventuring with GPS or map and compass! Geocacher Diana Biddle, DNR Naturalist Brittany Davis, and Cathy Meyer of Monroe Co. Parks & Rec will assist as you
search for geocache-style reasure boxeson this reasure hunt.nbsp; Come prepared for a 2-hour, moderately rugged walk as you explore the natural and cultural wonders of the T.C. Steele
property. Meet at. LocationA #16 1:00 p.m. Treasure at Griffy Lake Woods Discover a diversity of wildflowers in the forest near the Griffy Lake dam, where Director Keith
Clay and IU Herbarium Administrator Eric Knox will lead a 1 hour, easy walk. . Hike is limited to 25, so contact Dr. Clay at . Meet at . Pre-registration by e-mail is required
preserve@indiana.edu Location N #17 3:30 p.m.Hidden Hills & ollersnbsp; Explore The Nature Conservancy Hitz-Rhodehamel Nature Preserve with TNC Indiana Director
of Stewardship Ellen Jacquart and Brown Co. Hills Project Director Dan Shaver. Identify trees and wildflowers, and learn about the importance of intact forest communities to the survival of
plant and animal species. Participants will carpool to this beautiful preserve for a rugged, 1 hour hike. Meet at .Location G #18 Discover the Discovery Trail 3:30 p.m. _ Discover
the history beneath your feet as you learn about human impact on the area from the 1830s to the present day. Identify native and introduced plants along the way, and learn some of their
traditional uses. Join oment of Scienceradio personality Don Glass and Interpretive Naturalist Susan Douglas for this moderate,1 hour hike . Meet at Location C #19
6:00 p.m.Picnic at the Park _Join your fellow Foray afficionados for food, fun, and conversation. Reserve your spot by calling (812) 988-2785, or e-mail before April 23. Meet at .A special
catered picnic dinner is being provided at a reduced price...but you MUST make a reservation. Cost is $8.00 per person, payable to Friends of T.C. Steele. tcsteele@bloomington.in.us Location
K #20 7:30 p.m.Foray Review & Southern Indiana "Calls of the Wild" Compare notes as wildflower author Kay Yatskievych summarizes the 2008 wildflower count and reflects on 25 years of
census trends. End the evening with a silent auction, and a program by Geoffrey Keller, Cornell University Laboratory of Ornithology avian recording specialist. Enjoy music of forest and field
as Geoff shares recordings of local songbirds and relates the stories behind them. Dessert and beverages provided, no reservations are needed. Meet at .Location K SUNDAY EVENTS April
27,2008 #21 8:30 a.m.Youngman Woods Wander _T.C. Steele staff member Davie Kean and DNR Naturalist Susan Douglas will lead this 2-hour, moderate hike through
the 322-acre Youngman Woods State Nature Preserve. Learn how to identify native orchids by foliage and (if wee lucky!) by bloom. Parking is limited, so vans will be furnished for
transportation. Meet at .Location I #22 10:00 a.m.Pate Hollow Trail Explore Hoosier National Forest 7 mile, moderately rugged Pate Hollow Trail with HNF Naturalist
Stacy Duke and Cathy Meyer of Monroe County Parks & Rec. Bring your lunch and water, and enjoy up to 4 hours looking for wildflowers along this secluded trail near Lake Monroe. Meet at

Location B #23 Fire in the Valley 2:00 p.m. Meet Resource Specialists Brenda Huter and Dave Vadas of Yellowwood/Morgan-Monroe State Forests to explore a valley
abundant with fire pinks--and, perhaps, a glimpse of the elusive green dragon. Use of prescribed burning as a forest management tool will be discussed. Participants will carpool to the site for
a moderate, 2-hour walk. Meet at .Location D #24 2:00 p.m.xploring Mother's Cupboard lll hiked out? Sit awhile for this program on early pioneer gardens and medicinal
plants. DNR Naturalist Susan Douglas will discuss the culinary and medicinal uses of plants. Then, horticulturist JoAnn Himebaugh will explain how to get your spring garden off to a good start
with some native and traditional favorites. Meet at Location C #25 2:00 p.m.ust for KidsPhoto Workshop Kids, bring your cameras and join Sycamore Land Trust
Environmental Educator Carroll Ritter and SLT volunteer Martha Fox for a 2-hour photo workshop just for you. Learn special tips and tricks for wildflower close-ups, and visit a stream and pond
nestled in the woods nearby. Participants are limited to 15, so Call T.C. Steele SHS at (812) 988-2785 to reserve your spot.. Meet at .pre-registration is required.Location L_ Location Map of
Hikes: WHERE IS IT? Hike & Program Locations Meet at T.C. Steele State Historic Site, 1.5 miles south of SR 46 at Belmont. Meet at upper parking lot near exit.Location A:

Follow signs on SR 446 to Paynetown State Recreation Area, 6.5 miles south of SR 46 / 446 junction. Meet in parking lot behind office. Location B: Meet at the Brown County
State Park Nature Center. Park map is available at entrance gate.Location C: Meet at Yellowwood State Forest Visitor Center parking lot. Turn onto Yellowwood Rd. off SR 46 (at Knights
Corner store) and follow signs to office. Location D: Meet at Crooked Creek Boat Ramp, 4.9 miles south of SR 46 on TC Steele Road. :Location
E Meet in Brown County State Park at the Lake Strahl parking lot. Park map is available at entrance gate..Location F: Meet in the Nashville IGA grocery store parking lot, on the end near
McDonalds restaurant. Location G: Meet in Brown County State Park at the Fire Tower near the Park Office. Park map is available at entrance gate Location H: Meet at the North
Gate of Brown County State Park, between the road and the entrance to the covered bridge.Location I: From SR 46 /446 junction, drive 1.3 miles on SR 46, turn right (still on SR 46), and
drive 4 miles. Take 37S /45 S Bedford exit. Drive 2.7 miles, take 45 S / 2 St. exit, and tun right onto Bloomfield Rd.. Go 1.2 miles, and tum right onto Airport Rd. Drive 0.8 miles, turn right
at the 3-way stop, go 0.2 miles and turn right onto Foster Curry Dr, then left into Monroe Co. Highway Garage. Meet behind building.Location J:nd Meet in Brown County State Park at the
Rally Campground Recreation Bldg. Park map is available at entrance gate. Location K: Follow SR 46 to the Brown County /Monroe County Line sign. Turn immediately
north on Brown County Line Rd. Drive to the bam at the end of the road, and park in the open field just beyond the bam.Location L: From SR 46 /446 junction, drive 1.3 miles on SR 46, tum
right (still on SR 46), drive 2 miles. Turn right onto Fee Ln. (becomes Matlock Rd.), go 0.3 miles, turn left on Headly. Drive 1.1 miles, park at Griffy Lake boathouse.Location M: From SR 46
/446 junction, drive 1.3 miles on SR 46, turn right (still on SR 46), go 2.4 miles and turn right onto Dunn St. Drive 1.3 miles to parking lot below Griffy Lake Dam.Location N: Special Thanks
to Our Hike & Program Leaders Diana Biddle, Keith Clay, Brittany Davis, Susan Douglas, Stacy Duke, Jim Eagleman, Martha Fox, Jeff Hammond, Brenda Huter, Ellen Jacquart, Davie Kean,
Geoffrey Keller, Eric Knox, Kirk Larson, Kriste Lindberg, Teena Ligman, Cathy Meyer, Jeff Riegel, Carroll Ritter, Dan Shaver, Todd Stevenson, Tom Swinford, Phyllis Taylor, Dave Vadas, Terri
Warne, Rex Watters, Bob Welch, Don Whitehead, and Kay Yatskievych. Foray Planning Committee Stephanie Dean, Andrea deTamowsky, Susan Douglas, Stacy Duke, Jim Eagleman, Cathy
Meyer, and Jeff Riegel. Logo design by Davie Kean Map by Phyllis Taylor Join us next year for the 24 Annual Wildflower Forayth Friday, Saturday and Sunday April 24, 25 & 26, 2009 T.C.
Steele State Historic Site 4220 T.C. Steele Road Nashville, IN 47448 (812) 988-2785 e-mail:For more information, contact: