120444179 Posted on Saturday, January 03 @ 12:06:06 CST Topic:CBP Seizes $200K in Undeclared Currency; Arrest 1 at Texas Port Border Patrol American US Security C.B.P. News
Release CBP Seizes $200K in Undeclared Currency; Arrest 1 at Texas Port (Wednesday, December 31, 2008) Hidalgo, Texas - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers conducting outbound
inspections at the Hidalgo port of entry seized $200,635 in undeclared currency. The seizure occurred at about 12:45 p.m., on Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2008, at Hidalgo International Bridge. A CBP
officer conducting outbound (southbound) inspections referred a 2008 GMC Sierra pickup driven by a 31-year-old male Mexican citizen from Reynosa, Tamaulipas, Mexico for a secondary
examination. The driver gave a negative declaration for currency in excess of $10,000, weapons or ammunition. During the examination, CBP officers noted discrepancies in the vehicle's spare
tire. A non-intrusive imaging system scan indicated anomalies within spare tire. CBP officers conducted an intensive examination of the area and discovered 49 bundles containing U.S. currency
within the spare tire. CBP officers seized a total of $200,635 in undediared currency. CBP officers arrested the driver on federal bulk cash smuggling charges and tured him over to U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents who investigated the seizure. SUBJECTS: Illegal Immigration, illegal immigrants, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers, Hidalgo
port of entry , undeclared currency, Hidalgo Intemational Bridge, Mexican citizen from Reynosa, Tamaulipas, Mexico, federal bulk cash smuggling , U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
special agents,Department of Homeland Security This load of undeclared currency discovered by CBP officers was a result of the continued training a CBP officer receives, said Interim Port
Director Michael DeBruhl, Hidalgo Port of Entry, Our officers alertness greatly contributed in preventing this currency from being exported, in violation of federal currency reporting
requirements. It is not a crime to carry more than $10,000, but it is a federal offense not to declare currency or monetary instruments totaling $10,000 or more to a CBP officer upon entry or
exit from the U.S. or to conceal it with intent to evade reporting requirements. Failure to declare may result in seizure of the currency and/or arrest. An individual may petition for the return of
currency seized by CBP officers, but the petitioner must prove that the source and intended use of the currency was legitimate. U.S. Customs and Border Protection is the unified border agency
within the Department of Homeland Security charged with the management, control and protection of our nation's borders at and between the official ports of entry. CBP is charged with
keeping terrorists and terrorist weapons out of the country while enforcing hundreds of U.S. laws.