Gallery Price Glass Price Glass is one of the oldest and yet most progressive of companies in the Bristol area, having been formed over 30 years ago. The company has expanded over the
years and now offers Building and Installation Work, Glazing and Leaded Light Work in addition to Glass Cutting and a full range of allied products in our Shop. We have a comprehensive range
of conservatories, windows and doors, which can offer low maintenance, high security and considerable reduction in noise levels and heat loss. Most of our customers prefer to go for our PVCU
range, which is constructed from top-quality Profile 22, known throughout the trade to be one of the finest profiles on the market. We can also offer Thermal-break Aluminium Doors and
Windows, and all comply with the new Regulation L, and come with a ten year Guarantee. Windows When it comes to windows, you can rely on Price Glass to provide quality workmanship
with a full range of options. Our PVCu windows are custom-made from Profile 22, well known as one of the best quality profiles on the market. PVCu windows are available in three standard
finishers, crisp clean white, Rosewood and Antique Oak. However any colour can be arranged upon request ensuring that all styles of home are catered for. PVCu double-glazed windows will
keep your home warm and insulated, saving money on your heating bills, as well as reducing outside noise. No matter what shape, style or size your window is, we are able to replace it. All
windows are internally glazed unless you require differently and we also offer wood and aluminium options in addition to PVCu. Individual windows can be in Georgian style or leaded; and in
addition we are able to offer the highly prestigious Pilkington Activ glass with its self-cleaning properties. All windows come intemally glazed as standard and have security shoot-bolt locking
with fully lockable handles to give you maximum security. All our windows are 70mm profile with Pilkington 'k' glass to comply with the latest regulations. Doors The benefits of PVCu windows
are also true of PVCu doors, which come complete with the new Safeware locks. All doors are available in a choice of White, Rosewood or Antique Oak, and are glazed in toughened Pilkington
'k' glass. Handles are in a choice of Gold, White or Silver in either Pad or Lever design. We are also skilled in fitting aluminium or traditional wooden doors, both intemal and external. French
doors are very popular again, and whether open or closed they bring the garden into your home on the brightest or dullest days; however if sliding Patio doors are your choice, once again we
have just the ones for you. For further information, about our conservatories and our building services, please visit our website, or call on 0117-942 1716 Tags conservatories, general building
work, glass replacement, glaziers, glazing work, pvc windows, window replacements Map and Directions Driving Directions Enter street, town, town or just the first part of the postcode of
your location to get driving directions to this business. e.g. spitfire close, Ipswich, 'Oxford', or 'TS5'