: Interesting Facts About Mothers Mothers Day 2009 SPECIAL MOTHERS Mother is a very special part of any living being's life. No matter it is a human being or any other creature on the
earth, everyone's mothers is special for him or her. Mother is always loving and caring for her child. This fact is equally applicable to the mothers of all different species. Here we are with a rich
collection of some very interesting information about mothers in various species who do something or else special for their young ones. It was Aristotle who first observed in 340 B.C. that
dolphins gave birth to live young that were attached to their mothers through an umbilical cord. A whale feeds its baby for six months for the baby baleen whale depends on its mother's milk
diet for at least six months. The embryos of the sharks fight each other while they are in their mother's womb. And the survivor baby shark that wins is born. A baby Harp seal doubles its
weight in only five days after it is born. This is all because of the rich amount of protein in its mother's milk. On the other hand it takes a horse almost sixty days to double its birth weight. A
female kangaroo that has become a recent mother is capable of holding a reserve embryo inside of her after her first baby has crawled into her pouch. For this mother this embryo is just like
an "emergency back-up" baby, in case the first one dies prematurely. A mother giraffe is unique as she often gives birth to a child while standing. So the newborn first of all experiences a
nearly 1.8-meter or 6-foot drop outside its mothers womb. The mother chimpanzees usually develop lifelong relationships with their offspring, same as the human beings. The bond between
mother and child orangutans is so strong that the orangutan infants cling almost continually to their mothers until they are 1 years old. The mother cats give birth to blind and deaf kittens.
And it is the vibration of their mother's purring that acts as a physical signal for the kittens. Mother prairie dogs usually nurse their young while underground in the safety of the burrow. The
mother slaps the child in case it tries to suckle above ground. A mother rabbit could abandon, ignore or even eat her young ones if she is frightened or threatened. Mother Mexican free-tailed
bats find and nurse their own young, even in huge colonies. In these colonies many millions of babies cluster at up to 500 bats per square foot. The mother marsupial frog lays the eggs in a
brood pouch on its back. And the young keeps hatching out in a zipper-like fashion from the pouch. When the baby opossum is born, it is so small that an entire litter can fit in a tablespoon. It
lives inside its mother's pouch for nearly three months and then climbs out and rides on her back. A female oyster is capable of producing over 100 million young ones over her lifetime. The
name of 's mother, which is from the Peanuts cartoon strip, is Missy.Snoopy