(You can preview and edit on the next page) What Other Fathers Have Said Click below to see contributions from other visitors to this page... At the start of my divorce, my ex took off with
the kids, for the first year I had no visitation and no idea of were they where. I still had to pay child ... VISITATION TAKEN AWAY _ I yes being a custodial mother whom has a 6 year old
daughter by my ex husband would like to say thank you to those fathers out there that do care and ... Wow Here is a story that is unfair. My husband got divorced from his ex-wife about four
years ago; during the divorce everything was fine. But that was because ... Shared custody, but paying for both houses My ex girlfriend and I had a Bautiful Child together. After that our
relationship fell apart due to her being a party animal. I havent seen my child in ... I really got soaked My husband (non custodial parent) has been paying $600 per month child support for
his son since he and the child mother divorced ten years ago... Frustrated in Texas We were friends but never even a couple. It was just one of those things (unplanned blessing). Before my
son was born we agreed to not involve anyone else ... 8-4 IT STARTS TO GET UGLY I WAS MARRIED FOR NINE YEARS AND HAD 2 CHILDREN. MY WIFE CHEATED ON ME AND FILED FOR
DIVORCE. THE DIVORCE LASTED 6 YEARS. AFTER 6 YEARS THE COURT FINALLY ... DECEIVED FOR 13 YEARS _ I was happily married until I deployed for a year. When I left for my deployment
all Thad was a truck payment. I came back form my deployment and I was ... MILITARY FATHER VS. GOLD DIGGER For the past 3 years after I split with my ex I was ordered to pay child
support. I had joint parenting time which was divided equally leaving one extra ... Great state of Colorado Well! Where do I start? Since the separation and divorce that followed, it's been the
hardest years of my life, being treated like a second-class citizen... Donald Valentine _ Ten years ago I was in a relationship with a woman I considered myself to be in love with. I asked her to
marry me and while we were engaged she got pregnant... Dealing with crazy baby mama I have one daughter from my first marriage. We were divorced in 1986. I was ordered by the courts
to pay $302 a month. I faithfully paid my child support ... Good father, bad mother When my X wife & I separated in 1994 She dumped our daughter on her sister and collected support of
100.00 a week from me.She would give her sister 20.... no deadbeat dad I have a 15yr old boy that I have always taken care of. I got a bit behind a few years ago but have always made it a
point to be there for my son. Here ... Where is the money? My decree was modified in 2007 because my ex-wife overcharged me 8k in medical expenses and after a year long lawsuit agreed
to settle for just over 7k ... TX Attorney General's office mistakes Hi I am a father of 2 who has been divorced and sinced remarried. I was self employed when i first started paying child
support and felt it was my obligation ... paying support that is more than half my income w/ no visitation We met in high school and had been together ever since. We never married and now
here it is 10 years later and after a year of horrors she has left me.... Never married father-drug through dirt My husband had two kids with a woman but was never married to her. She lives,
in Indiana, We live in another state. When the mother found out we were planning ... Who can I turn to? I pay 100% of the financial obligation for child support for my son Jordan Stuart
Mills. While my ex-wife pays 0%. She has since re-married husband # 2 ... Barry Mills I now have custody of my 7 year old daughter. Finally the state listened to me and took her out of her
mothers home and the court placed her with me, She ... Father rights vs. mothers rights. This is a long torrid story of deceit and lies that will likely make your jaw drop. I was married to a
woman and we had two children at the time we divorced ... A Father after 21 years HI, Im a father who pays childsupport about seven hundred dollars. I had try to go to child support of to
find out where my child is an the told me that ... I pay child support but too much red tape and coverup from government.. I have been divorced almost two years. When are divorce was in
the process, my ex presented a letter from his employer (he was employed by his cousin) which ... Fatherhood with Optional Responsibility??? My husbands daughter is dear to us we love
her so much. At home she slept in one room with her little brother, mother and stepfather SICK! Her mom had ... Unfair _my boyfriend and i have been going through this crap for years. first
of all the ex is an illegal immagrant, but of course that did not matter one bit,... His Ex Got All I met a female through the internet. We went on three dates and then she calls it off. She then
comes back into my life and tells me she's pregnant. I... Tricked Let me begin by saying; your options are limited. For the most part, the state will always side with the custodial parent when
money is involved. What ... Its all about the custodial parent My husband recently started a job were he makes very good pay. He gets checks for daily pay and salary. The daily pay is not a
guaranteed amount each ... I need any advice anyone can give me! _I was separated and divorce in 2006, 2 young children. I give my Ex $1403 per month. I had my wages garnished that
way she can never say I missed a payment... Unable to speak n see children My husband had a daughter with someone whom he was never married to and ever since his daughter was born
she decided when he saw her and where and for ... Pissed Off Step Mom!!!!__ Ihave had my daughter for six months now while my wife...wrong...X Wife has been off playing Army. She has
cheated on me numerous times since joining ... Deadbeat Army Mother _I pay $600.00 per month and I don't even have the privilege to speak to them on the phone. im sick and tired of it.
I'm sick of crying EVERY day because ... Sick of paying and not even talking to them!!! _ My Boyfriend has two kids with his ex wife... She cheated on him they got divorced blah, blah, blah.

In there divorce agreement he paid $500 a month ... Fed up girlfriend... I have a daughter whom is 12 years old. She lives with her mother whom I separated from when my daughter was 4
years old. Her mother cheated on me and ... Afed up dad I ama Staff Sergeant in the U.S. Army and I have been paying child support for the past 15 years. I am not behind in my payments
and I have insurance ... Army Father denied rights Well My fiance babys momma... is holding the fact that he has moved on and found someone he really wants to be with...ME! And she
wont let him see his ... Baby Momma Drama... Ive been divorced for 3 years now I have paid all my payments on time see my kids when she lets me my complaint is that I made good
money in the past and ... Attorney General & payments I am a father with 3 healthy and beautiful children. I am now a paramedic and firefighter. In the beginning, I worked for a local EMS
system responding ... Texas Firefighter I make $12.50 an hour. My employee does not allow me to work overtime or anything like that. When the child was 9 years old we, my fiancand I,
found ... I Can't Afford My Child Support I have a 2-year-old and her mother and I have joint custody. I have a job and she works under the table at a bar (shes 19) she has my daughter in
medicaid ... Father My son and daughter live with their mother(my ex wife) and I havent seen them much since 2003. In January I had spoken with my daughter who was 16 at ... Tim