~ Online US job listings and resume submission form. ARAMARK _ - Career opportunities with one of the largest independently owned hotel chains in the US. Adam's Mark Hotels and Resorts
 - Nationwide employment opportunities in the US. Applebee's Restaurants - Corporate employment opportunities with the parent company of Holiday Inn, Crowne Plaza, Staybridge Suites
and Intercontinental Hotels. Bass Hotels and Resorts - Career opportunities at Rock-Ola Cafes and Tripps Restaurants located throughout North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia
Battleground Restaurant Group __- Information about entertainment positions at the theme park in Tampa, FL. Busch Gardens _- Offering management and staff careers at over 325 company
owned Chuck E. Cheese's locations. CEC Entertainment, Inc. _ - Applications accepted online for all locations. California Pizza Kitchen _ - Employment opportunities with western US resorts
and spa clubs. Canyon Ranch Health Resorts _ - Employment opportunities with one of the largest Burger King franchisees in the US. Carrols Corporation _- Employment opportunities at a
private golf, tennis and beach club located on Fishers Island, NY. Fishers Island Club - Offers employment opportunities throughout its various divisions in Hershey, PA. Hershey
Entertainment and Resorts  - Employment opportunities and benefits information. Hilton Hotels Corporation - Worldwide employment opportunities with Hyatt Hotels and Resorts, Park
Hyatt, Golf Hyatt, Grand Hyatt and Hyatt Regency. Hyatt Hotels and Resorts - Job openings with owner and operator of upscale, atrium style hotels in market driven locations throughout the
US. John Q. Hammons Hotels - Management careers and employment opportunities in the food industry at 225 southern US locations. Luby's _ - Employment opportunities at their
corporate headquarters in Washington, DC and properties across the US. Marriott - Operates 30 Wendy's restaurants throughout western and southern Michigan. Meritage Hospitality Group
 _- Employment opportunities with a large hotel management company based in KY. Neal Management Corporation _- Apply for Burger King restaurant management and crew employment
online. Also includes information on scholarships, awards and promotions. Northwest Franchise Association