Help for OCD Symptoms Resources for Health Care Professionals OCD is a serious, yet treatable anxiety disorder that often occurs with depression and other anxiety disorders. If not treated
properly, it may become disabling. Health care professionals can offer a variety of effective treatments to break free from OCD. Most people who seek treatment experience significant
improvement and enjoy an improved quality of life. It is important to work closely with a health care professional to determine the best option. Typically, treatment will involve one or more of
the approaches below. Successful treatment often includes a combination of behavior therapy and medication. Many therapists use a combination of cognitive and behavior therapies, often
referred to as CBT. In this type of therapy the patient is actively involved in his or her own recovery, has a sense of control, and learns skills that are useful throughout life. A form of CBT,
exposure and response prevention (ERP) has shown great success in helping people manage their OCD. It gradually exposes people to their feared obsessions and teaches them to become less
sensitive to them. First ERP slowly breaks the connection between obsessive thoughts and the anxiety they produce. Then it breaks the connection between the compulsion and the reduction in
anxiety that follows. Medication can be very useful in the treatment of OCD, and it is often used in conjunction with one or more of the therapies listed above. Medication is effective for many
people and can be either a short-term or long-term treatment option. It works to decrease anxiety enough for people to start ERP and stay with it. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
(SSRIs) have been shown to help people with OCD. Speak to your doctor or therapist about medication to determine which, if any, will be most effective in your treatment. Treatment Options
 Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT) The goal of cognitive therapy is to change unwanted and disturbing thought patterns. The individual examines his feelings and learns to separate realistic
from unrealistic thoughts.Cognitive Therapy The goal of behavior therapy is to modify and gain control over unwanted behavior. The individual learns to cope with difficult situations, often
through controlled exposure to them.Behavior Therapy Exposure and Response Prevention (ERP) Medication