photographs Welcome to my site. I hope that you will find some information helpful and that you will perhaps wish to offer something of your own. with any offerings or chat and tell me if you
want to add to my pages. Meg Heggie Write The experience of cancer is one that many of us will experience either first hand or second hand. There are many ways to help. The support
available on-line is one way of helping our loved ones, friends and ourselves. It allows access to information and comforting words from the safety of home. NEW My best wishes to everyone
for this New Year. Each person has different priorities so I hope your goals are achieved. vvwvv I have been at a weekend affair to celebrate the Winter Solstice and feel much refreshed and
ready to enjoy Christmas. I wish everyone who finds themselves here a happy Festive Season. I hope that nobody is alone who is not happy to be so. If you are alone really spoil yourself.
vwwvw Iam very happy to report that Mary West has had good results from her tests and she is well and healthy. Great news Mary. Tina at Redmoss Hotel has sent me a photograph of on the
island of Barra. Thank you Tina. I have put a wee bit in chat about this. stooks I have heard from Mary West () that she is going for a biopsy next week. Mary has been clear of cancer for over
four years and it will help her to know that we think of her. poetry 7 /font> New photographs are in . I am linking to another friends gardens mesothelioma site. Lauren Hasha lost a friend to
this disease many years after exposure. I have added a new poem to . This is a poem in memory of Stuartie Brown, a regular at the Burns Tavern in Leslie, Fife. Stuartie died recently of an
asbestos related cancer. He will be sorely missed for his cheerfulness and his voice. He sang a wonderful rendering of one of my favourites, Ye Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon, by Robert
Burns. I'm afraid I do not know the author of the tribute. Poems 5 I have added a link to where you will find podcasts by Cheryl Currier. The site is great and I did spend time listening to
Cheryle. I was really pleased to note that like myself and others I know, Cheryle considers that experiencing cancer not only changes your life but can change it for the better. Cheryle gives us
her simple survival strategies under CancerSavvy - Episode 1, Simple Strategies. I reall recommend looking and listening and hope that you will pass comments as requested. CancerSavvy I
was looking at the American Cancer Society site and noticed that 3 major TV networks will be broadcasting simultaneously on Friday 5 September. The programme is called and will be a star
studded affair. Stand Up To Cancer Apologies to Asbestos.com as I lost the link to the site. All is well again and the link to is in place. Thank you Jesse for letting me know about the problem.
Mesothelioma treatment Daniel the administrator of Drug3k website Drug3k is aproject of European Organisation of Family HealthResearch (EOFHR) - a non-profit research and education
organizationwho is (Online Drug Encyclopedia) asked if I would link to this site. . I think that this is a very useful site to people on medication. It is also a varied and most interesting site. I
have browsed the Drug3k pages well. Thank you Daniel. (Ellen Diamond has sent a great poem, , which you will find in . Ellen suffers from chronic lymphocytic leukemia and is at present in
remission. Her great sense of humour is seen in this poem. I shall add a link to a helpful site. Thank you Ellen.Aspects of a Smaller Neck poems9 /font> I have added a link to another site.
This site links to UK information which is helpful. This is obviously a big issue as world wide there is still an increase. What a frightening fact that is when we all now know the dangers from
asbestos. Thank you Remesh for giving this link. Mesothelioma Roger Lovegrove has reminded me that I had not indexed Sandra's poem . Thank you Roger for taking the time to tell me. T
really do appreciate this. It is good to know that folks revisit this site. Journey /font>