Twice as strong as cotton thread; durable; rot-proof Upholstery; home decor; outdoor fabrics; crafts _ Notions and Closures are parts that you sew onto your projects to add function and
decoration. There are hundreds of kinds of notions. are notions that, when secured to fabric, keep a gap, flap, or other opening, such as a pocket, closed. The most commonly used closures
are:NotionsClosures Buttons come in many sizes, shapes, colors, and materials, and are secured to the fabric by hand sewing ().Buttons:see How to Sew on a Button Snaps are metal or
plastic closures composed of a that fits into a . Most snaps can be sewed onto the fabric, though some must be hammered together, sandwiching the fabric in between. The packaging for any
type of snaps explains how to attach them to fabric.Snaps:ballsocket In a zipper, a runs up and down on two sets of , joining or separating the teeth as it moves. The teeth are attached to ,
which is sewed into fabric to attach the zipper to a project. The packaging for any type of zipper you buy has instructions on how to attach it.Zippers:pullteethtape Additional Tools Beyond
needles, threads, and fabrics, you need a few other tools to complete your sewing toolkit. Fabric Shears and Other Cutting Tools You need a variety of cutting tools to work with thread and
fabric. Never use these tools to cut paper or other non-sewing materials, because doing so can dull their blade beyond repair. These are sharp, heavy-duty scissors with a bent handle that
allows the fabric to lie flat as you cut. Sewers use these cutting tools most often.Fabric shears: Sewing scissors are small shears used for cutting threads, trimming fabric, and other small
sewing tasks. The blades measure about 6" long.Sewing scissors: These scissors have serrated blades that create a zigzag edge. Pinking is a quick way to finish a seam to prevent fraying. It
may also be used for a decorative effect.Pinking shears: A seam ripper has a blade with a forked tip that slices through fabric. It can remove stitches, open buttonholes, and cut individual
threads.Seam ripper: _ A rotary cutter is a wheel blade that cuts without a break in the cutting action (unlike scissors). Rotary cutters are ideal for cutting out pattern pieces. Always place a
protective beneath the fabric when using a rotary cutter.Rotary cutter:cutting mat Straight Pins and Quilting Pins You'll use for many general sewing tasks, including securing fabric in place
before stitching and anchoring notions to fabric before attaching them. are the most commonly used pins. They are slightly longer than 1" and slim enough to slip easily through most fabrics.
Straight pins can be kept in a or on a magnetized tray for ready access during sewing. are longer than regular straight pins (1 3/4"), and better suited for thick or heavy-duty fabric
projects.pinsStraight pinspincushionQuilting pins Thimble To protect your finger from getting poked, wear a on the finger you use to push the needle and thread through fabric. Using thimbles
is a matter of personal choice; some sewers choose not to use them at all.thimble Marking Tools Before you cut your fabric and assemble the cut pieces, you need to mark your fabric. There
are a number of marking tools to choose from: Use chalk to mark fabric when measuring or placing patterns. You can brush chalk off most fabrics easily.Chalk: Pencils cant be erased as
easily as chalk, so only use them when marking the placement of pieces (such as pockets) or trim that will cover the mark.Pencil: These markers create vivid markings and are easily removed
from fabric.Water-soluble ink: Measuring Tools A tape measure's flexibility allows it to measure three-dimensional objects or curved items. Tape measures are also handy for measuring bodily
dimensions, which can be helpful when making clothes from a . For sewing, plastic or loth tape measures are preferable to metal ones.Tape measure: sewing pattern A clear ruler allows you
to see the fabric itself while measuring it. Its hard edge ensures a clean, straight line when marking.Clear plastic ruler: Iron An is a vital sewing tool used to flatten seams you've just sewn
(You often need to flatten seams before you can sew the next seam.) You can also use an iron to remove wrinkles and folds from fabric before you cut or sew.iron