Polish culture over the world archive EXHIBITION "MARCH 68. FAREWELLS AND RETURNS" Sweden, Gothenburg, November 23 - December 19, 2008 language versions: _ polish english
The Adam Mickiewicz Institute wishes to invite you to the exhibition of works made as part of the Polish-Israeli documentary workshops devoted to the March '68 events in Poland. In March
1968 the communist authorities in Poland launched an anti-Semitic campaign which forced over 14 thousand people of Jewish descent to emigrate. They left for Israel, Scandinavian countries,
United States and France, simply they dispersed around the world, The anti-Semitic propaganda controlled by the officials as well as brutal treatment on the part of the communist secret Police,
contributed to a witch-hunt atmosphere and mass fear which left deep wounds in Polish society as well as feelings of bitterness and injustice in those who left Poland. The exhibition "March 68.
Farewells and Returns" is an attempt at re-thinking and reliving this sad history lesson. The participants of the workshops whose works will be presented: Grzegorz Brzozowski - film , Orly
Buium - film , Karolina Famulska - an essay , Katarzyna KuliDska - an installation , Abigail Liebman - an essay , Jonathan Rozenbaum - film , Adam Szumilak - radio report "Ex Libris", Anna
TraczyDska - radio report "Journalists", Nir Zats, Zuzanna Solakiewicz - film . The exhibition shall be presented in Emigranternas Hus, Packhusplatsen 7, 411 13 Gothenburg, Sweden from the
23th of November to 19th December 2008. Opening hours: Monday-Friday - 10-16; Saturday - 10-19. The opening of the exhibition will take place on 22nd November at 13.00 in the presence
of Michal Czyz the Ambassador of Poland in Sweden and J rgen Linder the mayor of the city Gothenburg. Curator: Mateusz Werner, artistic supervision: , co-production of the works: Against
Gravity, Transfax Film Production, exhibition design: Malwina Antoniszczak in cooperation with Monika Bielak, productions: Monika Derenda, photography: Vita Drygas. Special thanks to: Halina
Goldfarb, Piotr Kiszkiel, Poldek Sobel, Katarzyna Tubylewicz, Viola Wein, Yossi Wein. On 24th November there will take place an additional public discussion moderated by respected Swedish
journalist Mika Larsson with the title "Antisemitism in Poland then. Hot discussion now." In the discussion will participate: Abigail Liebman, Grzegorz Brzozowski, Mateusz Werner as part of the
documentary workshop , Adam Cwejman - student at the University of Gothenburg, member of the Liberal Youth of Sweden, and Poles who emigrated after 1968 to Sweden: Henryk Rubinstein
and Jerzy Samecki. For more information about the workshops and the exhibition see: . Organizers: Adam Mickiewicz Institute, Polish Institute (), Stiftelsen Emigranternas Hus. Co-organizers:
Polish Embassy in Stockholm, Polish Gerenal Consulate in Malm , G teborgs Stad, Levande historia, Coordination Committee - Polsk Judiska F reningen in Sweden. Project organized by the
Adam Mickiewicz Institute as part of the program of Polish Year in Israel 2008/2009.March 68. Farewells and Returns The Family of ExilesDon Quixote in WonderlandContinuity Is The Most
Important Thing. On Sophia Braun Ne LewinterMementoesPromised Lands. A Biography of Vera LechtmanHappy JewsCabaret Polska