Looking Out for Older Dogs" Blessed is the person who has earned the love of an old dog. - Sydney Jeanne Seward Breed Rescue Groups That Help Re-home Senior Dogs
Affenpinscher: is a national Affenpinscher rescue group. We have volunteers across the country and are willing to adopt dogs long distances as long as the new guardians are willing to fly or
drive to pick the dogs up. There is an application process including references and home visits to adopt one of our dogs. Contact: Dallas Rising 612-827-1786. E mail contacts: luna@waste.org;
esiteacher@websurf.net Affen Rescue Airedale: Airedale Terrier Rescue Has a special focus on helping find homes for senior dogs. Alaskan Malamute: Golden Years Alaskan Malamute Rescue,
Muskegon, Michigan Specializing in the older and special needs dog. Kennel run by Shirley and John Thomas. Places unwanted Alaskan Malamutes in loving and caring homes, educates the
public on the behaviors of the Alaskan Malamute, and encourages people to spay and neuter their pets. Telephone: E-mail: NCAMA/MUSH Alaskan Malamute Rescue, Fremont, CA
1-800-399-8155.spiritofashadow@aol.com Alaskan Malamute Assistance League: Seniors/Special Needs The Alaskan Malamute Assistance League's home page is dedicated just to senior and
special need malamutes looking for a final loving home to spend their latter years. These are wonderful Malamutes whose only sins are that they grew old or became ill. IIAMRA) is a
not-for-profit organization established to shelter and care for purebred Alaskan Malamutes who have been abandoned, tumed into shelters, or are in need of a new home. Telephone: . E-mail:
Illinois Alaskan Malamute Rescue Association (1.847.439.6751ilmalrescue@hotmail.com Spring City, TN, makes a point of taking senior Malamutes and Siberian Huskies and working hard to
place them in permanent homes -- until that permanent home comes along, they get grass and trees and shady kennels to call home. Good Dogs Deserve Second Chances. Telephone:
423-365-6039. E-mail: Sleddog Rescue sleddog @ pobox.com(remove spaces in address before sending) Rescuing Siberian Husdies, Samoyeds, Alaskan Malamutes and Northern Breed mixes
Northern California Sled Dog Rescue American Brittany Spaniel: American Brittany Rescue,Inc. Celebrated a tenth anniversary in 2001. American Eskimo Dog: , is a nonprofit dog rescue
organization devoted to the American Eskimo Dog. Rescues Eskies in need, provides loving care, and fins qualified, permanent, adoptive homes for them. Top priority is the right Eskie into the
right home. Heart Bandits American Eskimo Dog Rescue Greater Kansas City Chapter. Phone: 913-901-8430 E-mail: KCHeartBandits@aol.com KCHeart Bandits, Kansas City, KS Dedicated to
rescue and sanctuary of American Eskimo Dog "Eskie" Dog. A state licensed and insured, non-profit organization affiliated with Heart Bandits American Eskimo Dog Rescue. Our goal is to never
say "No" to a homeless American Eskimo Dog. American Eskimo Rescue and Sanctuary of Iowa, 2567 Kennedy St., St. Charles, IA 50240 Heart Bandits Chapter, American Eskimo Dog Rescue &
American Eskimo Dog Sanctuary, St. Charles, IA American Pitbull & Staffordshire Terrier Rescue, Houston, TX Pitbull Terriers, San Francisco, CA This group calls itself "BADRAP" for "Bay Area
Doglovers Responsible About Pitbulls," and has comprehensive information about the breed. The groups offers assistance in placing Pitbulls into new homes, and their site also posts dogs in
need of homes. Australian Cattle Dog: Several older Australian Cattle Dogs are available to long term foster or qualified permanent adopters. All are or will be spayed/neutered, up to date on
shots, microchipped and healthy. None are aggressive; all are abuse cases needing various degrees of patience and tender handling to regain trust. Please visit the site to learn more about
these wonderful dogs.Redwood City, CA Australian Cattle Dog Rescue, New Hope Cattle Dogs, Rescue & Rehoming, Inc. -- Arizona and Colorado New Hope Cattle Dogs' mission is to help
discarded, stray and unwanted Australian Cattle Dogs (ACD's or Heelers) find a forever home and to provide education and training to the public. We believe that there is a special place out
there for all unwanted and abandoned ACD's. All New Hope Cattle Dogs will be spayed or neutered, microchipped, dewormed, health checked, have a fecal exam and are up to date on all
vaccinations that are age appropriate. Phone: 602-690-8374. E-mail: shannon@newhopecattledogs.com Australian Shepherd: The is a not-for-profit organization that is composed of
volunteers who are dedicated to the Australian Shepherd breed. While senior dogs are not an exclusive "focus," there are often senior Aussies in foster care searching for forever homes. Please
visit the to see available dogs. Aussie Rescue and Placement Helpline, Inc. (ARPH) ARPH website Basenji: BRAT (Basenji Rescue and Transport) will find homes for any Basenjis of any age
There are 250 people on BRAT's waiting list, ready to offer a home to a Basenji. This group will be sure to help you find the perfect Basenji for your family. Contact Jennie Taylor at
jenniet@blueridge.net Basset: The Basset House, Fresno, CA If you can offer a foster home along the 99 corridor between Tulare and Madera, CA, please E-mail for information and an
application. Donations of good quality, small kibble, used blankets and contributions toward medical expenses are also always welcome. offers sanctuary, healing, and placement into a new
family, to distressed, abandoned, injured, or homeless Basset Hounds. We work to raise funds to save as many hounds as we possibly can and strive to constantly grow our network of
volunteers and foster homes to provide as many options as we can for every hound in need. Basset Hound Rescue of Southern California, Long Beach, CA, Basset Rescue, Contact Jerri Caswell
(619)286-8638; E-mailSan Diego, CA sdbasset@ aol.com rescues Basset Hounds in Kentucky. All Bassets are fully vet-checked before adoption and are brought up to date on vaccinations,
altered, and given whatever else necessary to make/keep them healthy Bluegrass Basset Rescue, Murray, KY Bluegrass Basset Rescue. takes in senior Basset Hounds from BROOD just about
always has several senior Basset Hounds looking for new homes. Basset Rescue of Old Dominion (BROOD) Maryland, Virginia, DC, Delaware, West Virginia, and parts of North Carolina,
Tennessee, and Pennsylvania. Ohio Basset Hound Rescue, Cleveland, OH If you're looking for a lovely, old Basset in the Cleveland area, be sure to get in touch with Basset Rescue. Adoption fee
and adoption application required. Contact Elaine Brown: . E-mail: or visit(216) 661-2965ebrown@pong.accessamg.com www.ohiobassetrescue.org Eagle Point, OR -- Oregon Basset Hound
Rescue --If you're partial to Bassets, be sure to contact this wonderful organization. E-mail: gsbasset@internetcds.com 281-579-7424alicia_ziman@hotmail.com Beagle: is a non-profit rescue
group dedicated to saving Beagles. They usually have at least one or two wonderful senior dogs in need of a loving home. Please visit the or call for more information about adopting a senior
Beagle friend! Arizona Beagle Rescue website 623-977-1355 This group is a great source of senior beagles in Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. If you are within driving distance
of southern Maryland, be sure to visit their and to get in touch about adopting one of their seniors. Beagle Rescue of Southern Maryland, Inc. website also has a special program dedicated to
seniors named after Winston, the founding dog of , an older gentleman who never made it out of foster care, but found himself loved nonetheless. In Winston's memory, has established the ",
a senior dog foster program to create a network of families willing to take older dogs into their homes and provide them with love until they pass over the Rainbow Bridge in their own time. We
support each other and the dogs and form a unique sort of family. Beagle Rescue of Souther Maryland, Inc. Beagle MarylandBeagle Maryland Friends of Winston focuses on the rescue of
purebred Beagles and Beagle mixes as well as other small dogs from pounds, humane societies and the street. Each rescued dog receives a medical exam and treatment. All vaccinations are
updated based on the history available for the dog. spays or neuters all dogs to assist in the fight against pet overpopulation. finds safe, new homes for almost all of its dogs. In accordance
with their no-kill policy, any dog that is not adopted remains at their sanctuary. For available dogs, see the Telephone: 626 444-9664. E-mail: Beagles & Buddies, El Monte, CA Beagles &
BuddiesBeagles & BuddiesBeagles & Buddies website. beagles @ beaglesandbuddies.com (Remove spaces in address to send.) E-mail: Bluebonnet Beagle Rescue, Houston, TX
Pat@bluebonnetbeagles.org Oklahoma Beagle Rescue, Inc., was established in 2004 and is the only known Beagle rescue in the state of Oklahoma. The rescue was founded in response to the
growing number of Beagles ending up in shelters all over the state. They began their rescue experience in an all-breed rescue and eventually concentrated all their efforts into rescuing the
greatest and most loving of all breeds -- the Beagle! E-mail: okbeagles@yahoo.com Oklahoma Beagle Rescue, Norman, Oklahoma P.O. Box, Lemont, PA 16851. Phone: . E-mail: Beagle Rescue,
Lemont, PA (814)-861-3904chabbe@aol.com primarily assists in the rescue and placement of beagles, coonhounds (treeing walker, blue tick, redbone, black & tan), and mixes of these breeds
Visit the E-mail: Hound Rescue, Austin, TX website, dale@houndrescue.com_, Houston and Surrounding Areas, TX. Telephone: E-mail: Houston Beagle and Hound Rescue
713-987-2076info@HoustonBeagleRescue.org Lone Star Beagle Rescue, Dallas/Fort Worth and West Texas We are a non-profit adoption and referral service specifically for homeless,
abandoned and unwanted Beagles and other hound breeds. We currently have a limited number of Beagles in our foster program and many, many more waiting to placed in either foster homes
or forever homes. We provide a referral service for municipal shelters, humane societies and other rescue organizations, Beagle, hound, all breed, etc., as well as helping individuals trying to
re-home their own dog or a stray they have found. There is now a place for the senior hounds to stretch and snore. Located out in sunny west Texas, "Old Hounds Retirement Home" is where
our very special rescue beagles will live out thier twilight years in comfort. It is run by the infamous Outlaws Sam and Belle Star. Their first guest is the lovely "Miss Oggie" from Tyler Texas.
Funds are needed to operate so your donation would be greatly apreciated. Old Hounds Retirement Home, West Texas Belgian Malinois: Belgian Malinois Rescue Volunteers of this organization
work especially hard on behalf of the seniors they rescue. Bichon Frise: Bichon ResQ -- Worldwide Directory Bichon Frise Rescue -- United Kingdom The Chairman writes, "Whilst the numbers
in the UK are smaller, the problems are the same: the shelters are full of older, large dogs. When we do a home check, we always take our lively Henry with us. People ask, 'Can I keep him?!
When we tell them he's ten years old, they change their minds. He's not for adoption, of course, but it just demonstrates the poor attitude towards older dogs. The mission of Small Paws
Rescue Inc., a charitable not-for-profit organization, is to rescue and supply any Bichon Frise or Bichon mix, nationwide, regardless of age or medical condition, with love, shelter, food, human
companionship, medical care, and spay-neuter services through local veterinarians, until permanent placement is secured into a pre-screened loving home. Small Paws Rescue -- Nationwide
Border Collie: is dedicated to finding new homes for unwanted Border Collies. Border Collies are wonderful dogs, but aren't the breed for just anyone. Telephone . E-mail contact Alabama
Border Collie Rescue, Montgomery, AL 334.270.0627tdaniel3 1@charter.net is an all- volunteer, non-profit organization rescuing Border Collies and Border Collie mixes in SE Michigan. All our
dogs are individually evaluated, up to date on vet work, spayed/neutered and fostered in homes. ARMBCR provides friendly after- adoption support to all our adopters. Animal Rescue Michigan
Border Collie Rescue (SE Michigan) New England Border Collie Rescue You MUST first fill out an adoption application AND have a home visit BEFORE being considered for any dog. As this
process can take time, we recommend that you complete these first two steps BEFORE inquiring about a specific dog. For more information on the adoption process, please see our . Call or
email Monique at orNEBCR website 603-880-9746mbfisher@adelphia.net is a 501c3 non-profit organization, dedicated to the rescue of abandoned and unwanted Border Collies and Border
Collie mixes, and to fostering the human/animal bond through new levels of awareness and connections to the heart, in particular promoting the principles of non-violence between children and
their environment through work with the rescue dogs at the Farm in Camp Border Collie for Kids. With 175 acres in the Catskill mountains of NY, GHF has most of the rescued border collies in
residence at the Farm. We cover shelters and relinquishments for dogs in NY, NJ, PA, CT We only adopt into the Northeast, and each dog is placed with a lifetime contract. Contact information
email: sweetbcrescue@citlink.net, phone: 607*263-5415, address: 217 Pegg Rd, Morris, NY 13808 Glen Highland Farm, Inc is purely a network of rescue people and organizations and doesn't
rescue dogs per se, but it is a means of contacting other Border Collie rescue groups. North American Border Collie Rescue Network rescues, rehabilitates, fosters, and places Border Collies
throughout Colorado and neighboring states. We provide a safe and loving environment for these dogs until they are adopted into their forever homes. Telephone: 303-906-2648, E-mail
bordercollierescue@earthlink.net Rocky Mountain Border Collie Rescue All the dogs that taken into care, and later adopted to a family, will have been spayed or neutered, vaccinations brought
up to date, fecal check, heartworm check done and hip X-rays taken to screen for hip dysplasia. The group offers ongoing help with training, behavior, and health questions. If there ever comes
a time when the dog is no longer wanted by the adopter, this group will gladly take the dog back into the rescue and find another home. The group's website offers the opportunity in need of a
new home. Border Collie Rescue Texas for individuals to list Border Collies Border Terrier: US Coordinator: Jo Ellen Wolf, 132 Buckboard Dr., Martinez, GA 30907 Telephone: E-mail:North
American Border Terrier Welfare, Inc. 706-863-0951.jo-wolf@webtv.net info@cbtwelfare.org604-921-8351450-584-3951 Borzoi: Borzoi Rescue of Northern California Borzoi Rescue Northern
California is an independent, nonprofit organization which provides assistance with rehabilitation, medical care, and permanent re-homing for any Borzoi in a rescue situation. Our principle
geographic area is Northern California, Oregon, and Nevada, but BRNC will assist any Borzoi, anywhere, who is abandoned or otherwise homeless. Boston Terrier: wonder dog rescue --
Northern California was founded to rescue, rehabilitate and place Boston Terriers and other companion animals at risk of being euthanized due to the pet overpopulation problem. The group
has recently expanded to accept many needy cats and kittens. Prior to placement, the animals are cared for by a team of volunteers in foster homes. Dogs and cats arrive at through owner
surrender and from shelters in Northern California.wonder dog rescuewonder dog Boston Brigade Rescue is a hardworking group dedicated to the care and re-homing of Boston Terriers. We
focus primarily in the San Diego, Riverside and San Bernadino counties, but work closely with other Boston Terrier Rescues throughout the state and nation. San Diego/Riverside -- Boston
Brigade Rescue Serving Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange Counties as well as some surrounding communities. Loving volunteers are dedicated to the combined efforts of shelter rescues, owner
surrenders, adoptions, and education for you and your present or future Boston Buddy. LA/Orange County -- Boston Buddies Rescue:\ is a group of volunteers based in NY and NJ. All of our
rescue dogs are fostered and evaluated for a two-week minimum to allow us to assess their personality and provide them with basic foundation skills -- house/crate training, basic manners --
to ease their transition into new homes. E-mail:New York/New Jersey -- Northeast Boston Terrier Rescue (NEBTR)LASKiPlus3@hotmail.com is a nonprofit, all-volunteer organization that
operates to rescue Boston Terriers that are surrendered, unwanted, homeless, mistreated, neglected, stray or slated for euthanasia no matter their health, condition or age. Boston terrier mixes
are considered on an individual basis. NE Boston Terrier Rescue exists to rehome the rescued Boston terrier and provide foster care in a loving home environment until a happy, safe and
"forever" home is found. Nebraska Boston Terrier Rescue - Making the Golden years Golden for each other" A program designed to bring rescued Senior Boston Terriers and Senior People
together in Illinois - Indiana - Michigan - Ohio. Senior people and senior pets make excellent companions for each other! To allow more senior people (60 years of age or older) to adopt our
senior dogs (6 years of age or older), the placement fee will be reduced for those who qualify. All of our rescued Bostons are spayed/neutered, vaccinated, heartworm tested and all known
medical conditions are addressed and treated as appropriate before placement. All of our placements are done by application. To apply for this program, please let us know you are interested in
adopting through the Senior to Senior Program on the placement application. Midwest Boston Terrier Rescue's "Senior to Senior Program , P. O. Box 433, Drakesboro, KY
42337Kentucky/Tennessee/Ohio Boston Terrier Rescue We are an all-volunteer, non-profit group (5013c) dedicated to the health and well being of all Boston Terriers. Rescue efforts take us
throughout the north Texas area and beyond when necessary. Our mission and main objective is to vet and responsibly re-home unwanted animals with a thorough pre-screening adoption
program that includes checking vet and personal references as well as a home visit. Secondary objectives include pet education, decreasing the number of purebred animals being born with our
policy of spay/neuter all dogs before adoption, and educating adopters on the importance of spay/neuter. Our ultimate goal is to ensure that every Boston Terrier has the chance to live the life
he or she deserves. American Boston Terrier Rescue realizes the importance of homes for elderly and special needs Bostons who are not adoptable to the average pet home and, to this end,
promotes a Seniors for Seniors Program." ALL Bostons deserve a loving home. We accept all Bostons, regardless of age or health. ABTR, P.O. Box 525, Sanger TX 76266 Voice mail: (972)
407-4440. Fax: (775) 417-5189 American Boston Terrier Rescue (ABTR), north Texas + Boxer: , 4061 Camas Ct., Chico, CA 95973. Telephone: Chico Boxer Rescue has been saving Boxers
since 1993. They are dedicated to making sure that the Boxers who come through the organization get the best care and are ready to go on to a new home in great shape and as quickly as
possible. Online Application @ CALIFORNIA -- Chico -- Chico Boxer Rescue 530-892-2072. www.chicoboxerrescue.com provides a sanctuary for boxers in need throughout California. Boxers
come to us from shelters, as strays, and from owners who need to give up their dogs due to changing life circumstances. NorCal Boxer Rescue of California provides the animals veterinary care,
spay/neuter, shots, a foster home, and placement into a home for life under a contract that dictates their humane care. Phone: (408) 231-8036 E-mail: info@ncbr.org NorCal Boxer Rescue
Serving North Florida and South Georgia FLORIDA/GEORGIA -- Boxer Aid & Rescue Coalition, Inc. B.A.R.C. NEW YORK -- Rochester -- Boxer Rescue -- Genesee Valley Boxers are considered
"seniors" at age 5. This group specializes in re-homing these wonderful seniors. NEW YORK -- Rochester -- Second Chance Boxer Rescue A 501c3 not-for-profit Boxer rescue organization that
places boxers in NY, NJ and all of New England. An American Boxer Rescue Association (ABRA) affiliate and the only one in the northeast approved by the national organization to do Boxer
rescue. Northeastern Boxer Rescue Northeastern Boxer Rescue is a non-profit, charitable 501(c)(3) organization which is an all-volunteer effort to rescue, rehabilitate, and re-home unwanted
and abandoned boxer dogs within the Northeastern United States. We work within Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont. When boxers are in need, NBR volunteers respond. Our mission includes hands-on rescue, as well as education. We strive to inform others about the
realities of pet guardianship, promote neutering, and encourage responsible care. It is our hope that our efforts will enhance the lives of people as well as companion animals. Join us. Help us
to help boxers. Our focus is on difficult medical cases and older dogs. Please go to our web site at www.BoxerRescue.com and call 413-367-9292 or email janescott@BoxerRescue.com for more
information. OHIO -- Dayton -- Boxer Rescue Boxer Rescue has a number of seniors looking for new homes and loving families with whom to share their mellow years. Rachel Osborne of
American Boxer Rescue Association can help find the perfect senior Boxer anywhere in the world. Dedicated to rescue and rehabilitation of Boxers, and routinely take in seniors. TEXAS --
Dallas/Ft. Worth/Austin -- Legacy Boxer Rescue Brittany (aka "American Brittany"): American Brittany Rescue -- The link embedded in the name of this organization at the beginning of this,
paragraph takes you right to the seniors, so you know this organization takes their commitment to finding homes for them seriously. is an alliance of dedicated Brittany rescue volunteers who
share a deep love for the breed and who will work to rescue, rehabilitate and re-home Brittanys in need, whether abandoned, lost, stray or surrendered to rescue for placement. As volunteers
united in a common cause, we are committed to the care of these dogs in foster homes, and to providing for their physical and emotional needs. We are committed in our endeavor to help
them with all the resources we have available. We pledge to maintain a community of volunteers who treat each other and the dogs they rescue with respect, courtesy, kindness and love. We
will seek always to lend encouragement and to support one another, and to facilitate friendly collaboration and cooperation between our volunteers. We believe that by building a supportive,
dog-centered organization founded on respect, honesty and integrity, we will always remain focused on the welfare of the Brittanys entrusted to our care and hold their interests uppermost in
our hearts and minds. Our mission is to place these dogs in safe, loving and permanent homes with approved applicants, and to provide a supportive network for our volunteers, who after all,
make our goals possible. National Brittany Rescue & Adoption Network (NBRAN) Brussels Griffon: Brussels Griffon Rescue League -- Many of this group's rescues fall into the senior category,
and none are ever tumed away. They are dedicated to helping Griffons, regardless of age or special needs. National Coordinator: Marjorie Simon. (Remove spaces in address to send.) E-mail
marjorie @ att.net Telephone: (713) 783-8887. Bull Terrier: Bull Terrier Rescue, Inc. (Northern/Central California) accepts senior/special needs Bull Terriers for hospice/retirement care. For
more information, please contact Susi at suznchaz@pacbell.net (Northern California) accepts senior/special needs pit bulls for hospice/retirement care subject to housing availability. For more
information, please contact Susi at suz@badrap.org BAD RAP Bulldog: Bulldogs -- On the Rebound Bulldog Rescue Foundation , covering Washington, DC, VA, MD, NC, and SC; reaches out to
bulldogs in need and has successfully placed many seniors. Also a resource for health information about bulldogs. Bulldogs -- Heart of America Bulldog Clubcovering Missouri, Kansas, Iowa and
Nebraska. Contact: Beverley Larrickor (913) 583-3624 or E-mail: (Remove spaces in address to send.) BLARRICK @ reginvest.com on a regular basis takes in older bulldogs that are looking
for homes. Southern California Bulldog Rescue is a committed group of volunteers dedicated to rescuing unwanted, neglected, abandoned, and relinquished Bulldogs in the greater San Diego
region. We are eager to find loving forever homes for senior Bulldogs in our program. Email: info@sdbr.org San Diego Bulldog Rescue :Cairn Terrier The operates nationally and often has
senior dogs available for adoption. They are especially proud of their record in matching the right dog to the right home and family. Cairn Terrier Rescue Network Col. Potter Cairn Rescue
Network (CPCRN) --Please visit the Cairn Terrier Rescue or E-mail: CPCRN operates nationally, with volunteers in almost every state in the US (including Alaska), and also in Canada. CPCRN is
the largest not-for-profit, all- volunteer Cairn Terrier Rescue in North America and last year found new homes for over 330 rescued Cairn Terriers and Cairn mixes, including seniors. website
cpcm@caimrescue.com -- an all-volunteer, not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to rescuing, rehabilitating and re-homing purebred Caim Terriers and mostly-Cairn mixes. We are
incorporated in New York, but we rescue Cairns nationwide. Our rescue Cais come from animal shelters and humane societies; others are released to us by their guardians. Our rescue Cairns
are spayed/neutered, tested and if necessary, treated, for heartworm and other parasites, and brought up-to-date on their inoculations prior to their placement in loving forever homes.vWe do
not have a shelter or facility but depend instead on a wonderful network of foster homes throughout the United States who under our officers guidance evaluate and rehabilitate our rescue
Cairns until they are ready for placement. We are committed to rescuing as many Cairns as our funding and number of foster homes and volunteers will permit. To see a list of our available
Cairns, please see . Cairn Rescue USA Cairns For Adoption Catahoula: "This list is dedicated to catahoula and other cur breed rescue, The Catahoula Rescue Network is a network of individuals
who have in some way shown interest and/or effort in rescue on behalf of individual dogs of this interesting breed who have become homeless.We're attempting to connect up individual
rescuers, and concemed individuals, so that in sharing information and ideas, homeless dogs will benefit. You may also wish to see the Catahoula Rescue Network E-mail List Catahoula
Rescue Website. Cavalier King Charles: Greater Chicago Cavalier Rescue (GCCR) is a not-for-profit corporation based in the greater Chicago IL area. GCCR's mission is to help ensure the
health and security of abused, abandoned, and otherwise endangered Cavalier King Charles Spaniels by rehabilitating and placing Cavaliers from shelters and similar situations, by assisting
breeders and owners in finding new homes for their Cavaliers, and by providing to the public educational materials and consultation regarding Cavalier health and care. E-mail:
cavaliers@gccavalierrescue.org Greater Chicago Cavalier Rescue Chihuahua and Other Small Breeds: Send an E-mail to LISTSERV@LISTSERV.AOL.COM In the message section typ
SUBSCRIBE TOYDOG [yourfirstname yourlastname]Toydog Rescue Chihuahua and Yorkie: is the result of many years of rescue work in Louisiana and Arkansas. As a registered non-profit
corporation, the goal of the group is to be the primary resource for rescued, lost and found pets in the area. Working mainly with Yorkshire Terriers and Chihuahuas (and other small breeds as
room permits), but also able to help seniors and special needs dogs. A Seniors for Seniors program places special senior dogs with senior citizens. Arkansas Mountain Home Pets, Inc. Chinese
Crested Dog Crest-Care is a nationwide nonprofit rescue that takes in Chinese Cresteds (and some CC mixes) of any age or health condition. We have several senior dogs in our rescue in foster
homes throughout the country (and a few in Canada too!) Visit our to see a listing of dogs for adoption and to fill out an application. Crest-Care -- Chinese Crested Dog Rescue. website
Operates with volunteers throughout the U.S. Never turns away any dog due to age or health issues. Hope's Haven Chinese Crested & Hairless Dog Rescue Rocky Mountain Chinese Crested
Rescue is located in Denver, Colorado. But, as the name suggests, the Rescue serves all of the Rocky Mountain region. This includes the states of Colorado, Wyoming, New Mexico, Utah and
Arizona. RMCCR provides foster homes and subsequently rehomes Powder Puff Chinese Cresteds, Hairless Chinese Cresteds and other hairless dog breeds. Rocky Mountain Chinese Crested
Rescue is a national non-profit, all volunteer Chinese Crested Breed Rescue with some rescue dogs being a mix of the Chinese Crested Breed. Our mission is to find unwanted, abused or
neglected Chinese Crested Dogs who are either an owner surrender, stray or have been placed in a shelter in search of a forever home. We are a volunteer foster home based organization,
providing medical and nurturing needs for the Chinese Crested Breed Dog. Visit our website www.crestedguardians.org for listing of dogs and applications to adopt Crested Guardians, Inc.

Chow Chow: , Grass Valley, CA. Several websites feature dogs from all over the USA regardless of age. Focus on Chow Chows and their mixes but help with just about any breed. See the
website: A 501(c)(3) Non-Profit Corporation. Phone: (530) 272-0488 main, (530) 277-1624 cell. E-mail: rescues@chowchowrescue.org Chow Chow Rescue of the Sierra Foothills Chow Chow
Rescue. Cocker Spaniel: -- based in the and the only Cocker Spaniel rescue in Northem California. Always have senior dogs. BAARK the Bay Area Animal Rescue Klub San Francisco Bay Area
 Cocker Spaniel Rescue of New England Age doesn't matter at this rescue organization. They will take in and try to place any Cocker, regardless of age. Cocker Spaniel Rescue of the
Mid-plains This group concentrates on rescues in the Midwest Plains states. They have successfully placed many seniors. American program ( Located in Fairfax, northern Virginia, just outside
of Washington, DC, this Cocker Spaniel Rescue group has a great "Oldies But Goodies" program.Cocker Spaniel Rescue "Oldies But Goodies" near Washington, DC) A group of volunteers
dedicated to finding homes for rescued and abandoned Cocker Spaniels in Colorado, New Mexico, and surrounding states. All dogs are vaccinated, spayed or neutered, dipped, clipped and
treated for any medical needs they may have including Heartworms.Cocker Spaniel Adoption Center - www.cockeradoption.com Colorado's Cockers Angels The aim of the Cocker Spaniel
Adoption Center is to help needy Cocker Spaniels find loving homes by displaying their pictures and descriptions and by telling their stories. We will also provide information on how and where
to adopt them. Although we are based in Maryland, we will try to find homes for Cocker Spaniels wherever they need them. We will post information from all over the United States and beyond.
All dogs are vaccinated, spayed or neutered, and treated for any medical needs they may have, including Heartworms. Cocker Spaniel Adoption Center This group rescues Cockers of all ages
and always has a senior or two in need of adoption. English Cocker Spaniel Club of America takes in Cockers of all ages including those with health issues. Okie Dokie Cocker Spaniel Rescue ,
a non-profit organization, is a small group of volunteers who work to place abandoned and rescued cocker spaniels in new homes. Dogs are vetted and assessed for temperament. If there is a
place in your heart and home for one of these cockers, please the hotline at or visit the website at Cocker Spaniel Rescue of Austin/San Antonio 512-527-9923 www.austincockerrescue.org
Collie: mission is to provide homeless Collies and other family-friendly dogs a safe haven where they will receive medical care, nutrition, and love until an approved home is found; to reduce
the number of unwanted pets by altering all dogs in our rehoming program; to educate the public about the importance of altering pets, and to promote the message that owning a pet is a
lifelong commitment. Almost Home Dog Rescue of Ohio ( AHDRO)'s Hope was found as a stray in Michigan when she followed home a woman who was out walking her own dogs. Hope is a
very sweet and laid back dog. She gets along with everybody, dogs and people alike; she rules the roost with the other dogs in her foster home. She is house and crate trained, although we
don't know what she thinks of cats. Hope, the beauty with a heart of gold, deserves the very best in her golden years. Please consider giving this wonderful senior a home of her own. The
adoption contribution for Hope is $175.00. Contact Daryl at halvacs@aol.com for more information on Hope, or any of our other special dogs. NorCal Collie Rescue is a nonprofit corporation
founded by Collie lovers who are dedicated to taking responsibility for each and every Collie. Collies come to rescue from many sources, including animal shelters, death of the primary
caretaker, people whose health has changed, breeders, divorce and many other circumstances. E-mail: info@calcollierescue.org Phone: (650) 851.9227. Norcal Collie Rescue covers northern
California, focusing on the Sacramento area, and adjacent Nevada, and specializing in shy, older and other special needs dogs. Right now, the emphasis is on Collie rescue, but plans are to
expand to an all-breed, senior dog effort. E-mail: collierescue@theroadhome-dogs.org The Road Home K9 Rescue Collie Rescue -- Central Midwest, Lisle, IL -- Seniors are always available
through this dedicated group. Finding New Hope and New Homes for Homeless Collies.....Minnesota Wisconsin Collie Rescue (MWCR) is a registered non-profit charitable organization made up
of volunteers who are dedicated to the safety and welfare of purebred rough and smooth Collies. The purpose of MWCR is to rescue as many unwanted Collies as possible. Adoptability is
assessed and the dogs are placed into loving homes, with the best possible match between dog and new family. Minnesota Wisconsin Collie Rescue Collie Humane Care, Inc.is a not-for-profit
corporation formed to serve Collies in the U.S. and in Canada whose owners need help for their dogs care because of serious family emergency. The group has helped Collies whose owners had
cancer, hip surgery, Alzheimers, heart disease or an accident. The organization has provided services in 23 states and in two Canadian provinces. For information, write or phone Barbara Dutton
Brill, President, Collie Humane Care, Inc., P. O. Box 234, Dundee, NY 14837-0234. Tel: (607)243-8060. Best time to call: 8:30-10 p.m. ET, or Sunday afternoons. E-mail: Subject: CHC.

brill. barbara @ worldnet.att.net Collie Rescue of Greater IL, Inc. Collie Rescue of Greater Illinois is a nonprofit organization established in 1995 providing shelter and care to purebred Collies
who have been abandoned or turned in to shelters. The Collies are placed in temporary foster homes until a permanent home can be found. Each rescued Collie has a modest adoption fee
which covers most of the dog's expenses. E-mail: info@CollieRescue.org Phone: 630.415.1206 , Telephone: . E-mail:Country Pride Rescue, Monson, MA 413-267-4430collies@samnet.net
covers Central and Eastem part of Ohio, Cincinnati, Indiana, Kentucky, West Virginia. The site has a ready for adoption. TriState Collie Rescue special page for senior Collies The Collie and
Sheltie Rescue is a volunteer-staff, non-profit organization, 501(c)3, that rescues and places for adoption unwanted, abused, neglected, or abandoned Collies and Shelties. We are very similar
to your local SPCA, but we specialize in collies and shelties. The "orphans" we receive are given personalized attention through our foster care network. Collie and Sheltie Rescue of
Southeastern VA, is a 501(c)(3) tax exempt organization. Our mission is to place stray, abandoned and surrendered Collies into loving and permanent homes, educate the public about the
Collie breed, and promote responsible pet care. Our goal is to provide a safe and healthy haven for all dogs placed in our care until loving, adoptive homes can be found. Phone: 703-963-7329
Collie Rescue, Inc., Chantilly, VA helps all collies and shelties in need, including seniors. We also help collie-mixes, sheltie-mixes, and occasionally dogs of other breeds that need us. Founded in
1979, PC/SR helps between 100 and 200 dogs a year. Dogs come to us not only Colorado, but from New Mexico, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska and South Dakota. PC/SR is a registered non-profit
charitable organization run by volunteers. Dogs live in our homes as fosters and are given the thorough vet care prior to adoption. Our adoption application and additional information are
located on our Our email address is info@pueblocolliesheltie.org. To contact PC/SR Director Hope Hemperly, call 719-547-4008, or write to her at 234 S. Hacienda del Sol Dr., Pueblo West, CO
81007. Pueblo Collie/Sheltie Rescue of Colorado ("Collie-rado") website. (just south of Nashville, TN) Telephone: (615) 794-6969 E-mail: colliesrool@aol.comCollie Rescue of Thompsons
Station, TN Corgi: Southwest Idaho Corgi Rescue specializes in caring for senior dogs and dogs with long-term-care needs. Also takes in other breeds and mixed breeds from other rescue
groups when the need arises. Contact Nanette (208) 344-3938. Dachshund: Dachshund Rescue A major focus of this site is the senior versions of these great, little dogs; there's also a great,
big statement about the need to change attitudes toward adopting seniors. Benny Archuleta, who runs the Dachshund Rescue webpage writes: "I regret to tell you that I have seen an alarming
increase in the number of senior Dachshunds needing homes. While the website has had some success in helping the majority of these Dachshunds find new homes (the most recent, a
13-year-old adopted by a person in St. Paul, MN), there are still far too many senior animals in need." is a non-profit, 501(c)3, no-kill dachshund rescue in the state of Florida. D.A.R.E. accepts
all dachshunds and dachshund-mixes in need regardless of age, health or behavior issues. rehabilitation and re-homing of dachshunds in need. Please visit our to see our list of available dogs.
727-525-2019. info@DAREtoRescue.com Dachshund Adoption Rescue and Education (D.A.R.E.) website