Who are we? We are a partnership of business executives, coaches, improv artists, experienced facilitators and playful innovators who sincerely love doing our work. Core partners are:
-Managing Director of Spark NW -Workshop Artist -Breakthrough CoachLeif Hansen, Leif Hansen, managing director of Spark Northwest, has been using collaborative creativity to inspire,
challenge and connect diverse groups for over two decades. His recent Soul Tech workshops, designed to help participants find balance with their relationship to technology, have received
national attention, including coverage by the Today Show. Drawing from the principles and practices of improvisational acting, Leif's vulnerable and yet dynamic energy sparks a group's ability
to connect authentically, playfully and productively. -CEO of -Focus Facilitator -Executive CoachJay Kimball 8020 Vision What's our mission? Our mission is to provide the most and
breakthrough experiences available in the Pacific Northwest to individuals, teams, organizations and communities.enjoyabletransformative What do we most value? &with ourselves, our clients
and the publicHonestyauthenticity to that is satisfying, deep and lastingOpennessgrowth Making work and experience as as possibleouryourfun with and implementing the most innovative
tools, games, skills and techniques of transformationxperimenting Demonstrating and fostering & between people, as well as committing to a deep and grounded for all people and each
circumstancerespect, trusta compassionate presencehopeoptimism The power and importance ofnarrative The core principles of :"", "","", "", "", Freedom, SpontaneityimprovisationYes,
And...Make your partner look goodMisteaks are GiftsEnter the DangerTrust the Process What's Our Philosophy? You (or your team) already have the knowledge to solve most of the challenges
you face. Day-to-day tactical pressures often prevent focusing on issues that are the true drivers of success. It is essential to break away from the daily grind, turn the cell phones and laptops
off and let the wisdom that is in you (and your team) rise to the top. That knowledge can be quickly brought to surface and transformed into real-life practice with the help of facilitators
trained in powerful, fun experience-based learning techniques. High performance teams that play together work well together. Our process is fun and our outcomes are effective. Collaboration
that truly involves everyone - both the introspective and the vocal - yields better solutions and is more universally embraced by the team. spark kudos "My most respected colleague, Rebecca
Stockley, sent me an email last year from San Francisco about Leif that said, 'Hes a detail guy working with the big picture, and he brings a remarkable tech savvy to support it all."Talk to this,
guy if he calls you. He gets it.' And I did and he does. - Matt Smith Professional Trainer, Bainbridge, WA. Leif teaches and leads (but can't fake ID in the opposite age direction). Teaching is a
passion with Leif, and whose life couldn't use a whole lot of Wonderosity.seminars that tickle the right brains of exactly the people who should have had improv in elementary school - David
Lavallee Software Designer , Bellevue, WA. His specialty seems to be "consensus building" and his strengths are in an ability to connect with people on a very personal level." Leif is.
non-judgemental, open, approachable and an excellent coach. - Muhammad Ayub