More Wedding Budget Tips by Rose Smith Instead of purchasing or ordering a new wedding gown, check over the sample gowns used in the store for brides to try on. These are often marked
down to 50% or more. However, look the dress over carefully for rips or stains, since they have probably been tried on many times. Check out your bridal boutique before ordering a gown. Ask
around to find out the reputation of the vendor and if they are listed at the Better Business Bureau. Some bridal vendors will deliberately order dresses at a larger size, then charge you for
alterations. Many a bride has also been disappointed when the gown that they ordered didnt arrive in time because the vendor didnt stay on top of things. Purchase a simple, plain bridal
gown and enhance it with your own appliques and trimming, most of which can be obtained from craft stores. Just make sure that any appliques, lace or beading added is dry-cleanable.
Consider making your own head piece and veil. They are fairly simple to make and many bridal craft books show you how to put one together. Making your own headpiece costs very little and
can save you a lot of money, such as in the $70 - $100 (or more) range. A definite savings that can be used elsewhere. Consider your attendant's financial circumstances when choosing their
bridesmaids dresses. They will be more appreciative if you choose dresses that are stylish and that they can wear again. Usually, a simpler style dress that is bought in a department store will
cost less than one that is touted as a bridesmaids dress and bought at a bridal boutique. Ask for a discount if you order all your bridal dresses and accessories from one store. Instead of using
flower bouquets, consider carrying candles, books, bibles, a single flower trimmed with ribbon streamers, wicker baskets or a decorated fan. Use balloon bouquets instead of flower bouquets
for decorations. Balloons and helium are a fraction of the cost of flowers, yet still look festive. They come in a multitude of colors and you can dress them up with ribbon streamers. Look for
cake toppers in a craft store or grocery stores. They are usually cheaper than getting them directly from a cake decorating place. Also, if you are a crafty person or know someone who is,
create your own cake topper. They are pretty simple to make. Reuse your pew markers to decorate doorknobs or other areas of your reception site. Rose Smith is the owner of Wedding
Themes and More, a website designed to help you discover your perfect wedding theme. Find more great ideas, resources and articles on . http://www.wedthemes.com