Scripps puts Rocky Mountain News up for sale, cites economic downturn By 12/4/08 4:24 PM Ernest Luning Denver's oldest newspaper D and Colorado's oldest continually operating business
Dis up for sale, the parent company of the Rocky Mountain News announced Thursday. The decision to seek a buyer for the Rocky would have been unthinkable until very recently, EW
Scripps Co. CEO Rich Boehne said in a statement, pointing to a worsening economic climate that has led to $11 million in losses so far this year. Scripps announced last month it was
eliminating 400 jobs throughout its chain as , costing the newspaper industry $2 billion 1 but that hasnt been enough to stem losses at the Rocky. The newspaper has operated under a
federally sanctioned Joint Operating Agreement with Media News Group, owner of the rival The Denver Post, since 2001. The papers shared publishing facilities and ad sales but ran two
separate newsrooms. advertising revenue tumbled OI down 18 percent in the third quarter alone [The] operating conditions have become increasingly difficult in Denver, as is the case in all
major metropolitan newspaper markets, Boehne said in the statement. Our 50 percent of the cash flow generated by the Denver Newspaper Agency is no longer enough to support the Rocky,
leaving us with no choice but to seek an exit. The company will take offers through mid-January, Boehne said. If no buyers emerge, Scripps will examine its other options for the future of the
Rocky Mountain News and its interest in the Denver Newspaper Agency. That means it , the Rocky reported Thursday afternoon. will consider shutting down the newspaper Newspapers
around the nation have been particularly hard hit for years, and this downturn is impacting newspapers as badly as any industry, but nobody should be writing the RockyCIs obituary just yet,
Gov. Bill Ritter told the Rocky. ICIm hopeful the community will continue to benefit from the Rocky for years to come. When contacted about the Rocky News, Denver Post publisher Dean
Singleton said he plans to wait and see what happens. I am not sure thereCIs much I can say. This is not my story. Although The Denver Post is also bleeding money, Singleton declined to say
what measures the newspaper was taking to stem its losses. We are committed to Denver, he said. The U.S. Department of Justice would have to approve any sale of the Rocky to The Denver
Post, given the JOA. Its a, Editor & Publisher reported Thursday. buyer's market for troubled newspapers The Rocky Mountain News is one of several metros up on the auction block. The
Copley Press is selling The San Diego Union-Tribune and other properties; Cox is also trying to unload several newspapers, including the Austin American-Statesman. Landmark Communications
pulled the Virginia-Pilot in Norfolk off the market on Wednesday due problems with buyers lining up financing. The news came the same day another newspaper chain's layoffs reached 2,000
employees. Gannett, which operates 85 newspapers across the country, will be except the Detroit Free-Press and USA Today, E&P reported. cutting 10 percent of its workers, on average, at all
of its daily papers