Building the World of Tomorrow At the New York World's Fair Burying the Capsule The 1939 World's Fair, held in Flushing Meadows, captured the spirit of two quintessential American traits:
optimism and futurism. Perhaps it was best portrayed in General Motors' Futurama, an exhibition designed by Norman Bel Geddes. Geddes, a theatrical and industrial designer, accurately
forecasted today's landscape shaped by automobiles and superhighways. "Democracity," which envisioned business and cultural centers enveloped by bedroom communities, also revealed the
spirit of the age. These optimistic and forward-looking visions reflected in the 1939 World's Fair are telling. They suggest that Americans were aware that their lifestyles were going to change
profoundly in the coming years. Westinghouse's resulting product was a bullet-shaped Time Capsule I, constructed from an alloy made of tempered copper, chromium and silver called Cupaloy.
The contents, sealed snugly inside an airtight glass envelope, were selected based upon how well they captured American life as it was in 1939. Some day, 5,000 years in the future, a person
will stumble across a key to the capsule. Pethaps someone will find it in a monastery in Tibet, or in a library in Manhattan. The "Book of Record," printed in 1938 on permanent paper with
special ink, describes the latitude and longitude of the capsule's burying place. Some 3,000 copies of the "Book of Record" are stored in libraries, museums and monasteries throughout the
world. In the days leading up to the 1939 World's Fair, Westinghouse Corporation took on a project. The company began developing a time capsule--one that would be retrieved 50 centuries
after being buried. Westinghouse worked on technology and logistics, while a selection committee began the arduous task of choosing contents. General Motors's Futurama The contents were
divided into five basic areas: ,,, an , . And what was inside? Some things as common as fountain pens and a set of alphabet blocks -- about 35 small, everyday articles in all. The capsule also
contained 75 representative fabrics, metals, plastics and seeds. Contemporary art, literature and news events collected on microfilm also secured a spot in the capsule. small articles of common
use textiles and materials miscellaneous items essay in microfilm newsreel How will they find it? The Book of Record Capsule's Resting Place The book will provide clues for the discoverers, as
well as make requests. The book requests that its contents be translated into new languages as they supersede the old. Instructions for making and using instruments to locate the capsules
electromagnetically also are included in the "Book of Record." And it contains an ingenious key to the English language to aid future archaeologists and linguists should knowledge of our present
language be lost. WORLD'S FAIR MEMORABILIA Check to see if there is a near you. Book of Record VIDEO CLIP "Building a World of Tomorrow." Opening-day ceremonies at the New York ,
April 1939. (National Archives) (1.1 MB) World's Fair