Jump to: , navigation search This article . Please help by introducing appropriate of additional sources.relies largely or entirely upon a single source improve this article citations (August 2008)
 The following is a for the long-running and Award-winning U.S. .list of episodes Peabody Emmy medical drama ER Some episodes have separate, more detailed summaries. As of February
12, 2009, episodes have been broadcast.324 Contents Rod Holcomb September 19, 1994 John Carter begins the first day of his internship at County General Hospital, a surgical student
under the mentorship of Dr. Peter Benton. Dr. Mark Greene, an ER resident physician, is mulling an offer to go into private practice. Dr. Susan Lewis, another ER resident, deals with an
advanced cancer patient. Dr. Doug Ross, the ER pediatrician, confronts a woman over potential abuse of her daughter. The lead nurse, Carol Hathaway, retums several hours after her shift as a
patient, overdosing in an apparent suicide attempt. Nielsen Ratings: 23 million viewers 2 Mimi Leder September 22, 1994 Lewis butts heads with the resident psychologist, her lover, Dr.
Cvetic, over care for a senile patient. Greene tries to deal with an elderly man who insists on keeping his wife on life support even though she is DNR (do-not-resuscitate). Benton corrects a
diagnosis made on a patient by their own physician. Carter is seduced by a sexy hypochondriac. A family comes in after an alcohol-related car accident. Greene's wife has passed the bar exam,
but Greene has no intention on entering private practice. Ross visits Hathaway, who is recovering from her suicide attempt. 3 Mark Tinker September 29, 1994 Hathaway retums to work
after her suicide attempt, and gets support from her co-workers and her orthopedic surgeon boyfriend, Dr. John "Tag" Tagliari. A mysterious woman (played by ) comes to the ER and sings to
the doctors and patients while the doctors try to find out who she is. Lewis deals with a heart patient. Carter continues to work with the hypochondriac woman. Benton works with an injured
convenience store clerk who insists on defending himself when his store is robbed. Rosemary Clooney 4 Mimi Leder October 6, 1994 Greene mulls a decision to move to Milwaukee so his
wife, Jennifer, can pursue her law career. Ross attempts to reconcile his lingering feelings for Hathaway. Benton clashes with another surgeon over a hit-and-run patient. Carter mixes up
patients when he tries to notify a family of a lost patient. A married man comes in suffering a mild heart attack while handcuffed to his mistress. 5 Charles Haid October 13, 1994 Greene
and rest of the ER staff tend to a dying heart transplant candidate. Ross counsels a woman who cannot afford medication for her asthmatic daughter. Carter may have made a mistake with a
former patient. Lewis has to juggle dealing with an alcohol-poisoned fraternity brother and calls from her mother to get her prodigal sister, Chloe, a job. 6 Elodie Keene October 20, 1994
The air conditioning at County General is broken. Greene brings his daughter, Rachel, to work with him while Jennifer goes apartment-hunting in Milwaukee. Ross works with a 5-year-old girl
that ingested cocaine. Benton tries to save a young robber shot by his frequent convenience store clerk patient. Lewis tries to deal with Chloe's worsening mental problems. 7 Vern Gillum
November 3, 1994 Ross and Hathaway save a young boating accident victim. They give in to their feelings briefly, making Hathaway reconsider moving in with Tag. Chloe disrupts a date
between Lewis and Cvetic. Benton is competing for a prestigious fellowship. Greene observes Carter in the ER, giving Carter some confidence. 8 James Hayman November 10, 1994 Greene
callls in sick so he and Jennifer can spend the day together, leaving Ross in charge of the ER. Carter works on a high school wrestler that starved himself to make weight. Hathaway counsels a
young rape victim. Benton is dealing with his senile mother, and butts heads with Ross. Lewis is worried about Cvetics growing temper problem. 9 Daniel Sackheim November 17, 1994
Lewis is caught in the middle as both Cvetic and Chloe have problems. Carter tries to help a suicidal transsexual. The ER tries to save two boys who killed a girl in a car accident. Benton invites
Carter to Thanksgiving with his family. Hathaway confesses her feelings about Ross to Tag after Ross begins a new affair. 10 Neal Baer & Paul Manning (story), and Lance Gentile (teleplay)
Mimi Leder December 8, 1994 It's a December blizzard, and the day starts out quiet. Hathaway announces her engagement with Tag. Suddenly, County General goes into crisis mode when a
32-car pileup on an expressway inundates them with patients. Among the patients are a young male that Benton knows that lost his leg, a friend of Ross that dies suddenly while waiting for
treatment, and a man who is snowed in at home and calls Greene when his wife refuses to go to the hospital to have her baby. Lewis tries to save a man that suddenly develops an aneurysm,
and the patient is saved by the most unlikely person. 11 Dr Benton makes a grave mistake with a brain dead patient. Dr Ross crashes the party. 12 Dr Benton must deal with a family
conflict. 13 Dr Carter shows new medical student Deb around the ER. 14 Anita Addison January 19, 1995 Dr Lewis treats a fellow Doctor. Dr Benton hires a physical therapist, Jeanie
Boulet, to take care of his mother. 15 Dr Greene gets an offer for an attending position. 16 Mimi Leder February 9, 1995 The ER Doctors treat a different kind of patient. Nurse Hathaway
becomes attached to an abandoned 6-year-old girl from Russia. 17 Dr Benton must decide between his mother and his career. Nurse Hathaway considers adoption. 18 Dr Benton works 48
straight hours. Nurse Hathaway's past comes back to haunt her. 19 Fred Gerber April 6, 1995 Dr Chen makes a disastrous mistake. Dr Lewis's sister Chloe comes back. : 35.3 million
viewers (highest rated of season one) Nielsen Ratings 22 Christopher Chulack April 27, 1995 Dr Benton compensated his inability in helping his mother by going beyond the call to help his
patients. 23 Fred Gerber May 4, 1995 Dr Carter's family background is discovered. Dr Benton starts falling for a married woman. Nurse Hathaway has trouble writing her wedding vows. 24
Quentin Tarantino May 11, 1995 Dr Ross must deal with commitment issues. Dr Carter's future is uncertain. Dr Lewis helps deliver her niece. Dr Benton receives some bad news. 25
"Everything Old Is New Again John Wells Mimi Leder May 18, 1995 Dr Carter gets some surprising news. Dr Greene gets sued. It is Nurse Hathaway's wedding. will she make it down the
aisle or get cold feet? Nielsen Ratings: 33.6 million viewers [] edit Season 2: 1995 1996 Mimi Leder September 21, 1995 Dr Carter is late for his first day of work and Dr. Benton's not happy
about it. Susan tries to help Chloe and Baby Susie. Mark Greene has two choices for the new Chief Resident post. : 37.5 million viewers. Eric Laneuville September 28, 1995 Nurse Hathaway
goes on a ride-along. Dr. Ross deals with a troubled child who sets things on fire to gain attention. Dr Greene appoints Dr Weaver as Chief Resident and she clashes with Doug. 3 F lix Enr
quez Alcal October 5, 1995 Dr. Lewis is left to take care of little Susie when Chloe takes off. Dr. Carter loses his very first patient. 4 Dean Parisot October 12, 1995 Dr. Benton hurts his
hand allowing Dr Carter to take his place. A woman is being abused by her husband, a cop. Dr. Lewis considers adoption and comes to better terms with Dr Weaver. 5 Lesli Linka Glatter
October 19, 1995 Dr. Lewis decides to keep little Susie. Dr. Ross gets some help from Harper when caring for an AIDS patient and clashes with Dr. Greene over the case. 6 Mimi Leder
November 2, 1995 Dr. Ross might lose his job after he runs afoul of the Pediatrics Chief. Harper has a confession to make. Jeannie Boulet starts working in the ER as a Physician's Assistant.
Carol buys her first house. 7 November 9, 1995 : 42 million viewers (highest rated of season two) Dr Ross accepts a private practice offer, but finds his inner hero when he helps a little boy
trapped in a storm drain. Carter and Harper remain estranged during a case where a child is hit by a car and her divorced parents arrive at the ER. Thomas Schlamme November 16, 1995
Boulet files for divorce from her husband. Carter and Harper reconcile. A weird family situation nearly blows up in Carol's face, and she tells Shep about her suicide attempt. Dr. Lewis' father
surprises her with a generous offer. Dr. Ross is considered a hero and gets his fellowship renewed. 9 Donna Deitch December 7, 1995 Dr Greene rushes to Milwaukee after hearing his wife
and child were in a car accident only to receive some more surprising news. Carol treats a kind young artist who is schizophrenic. 10 Mimi Leder December 14, 1995 Christmas becomes a
time for miracles for both patients and the ER staff. Nurse Hathaway hosts the Christmas party and receives a surprising gift. A Holocaust survivor who was carjacked awaits news on her
granddaughter and restores some of Dr. Greene's faith, while Jeannie mediates when gang members want to get revenge after a beloved Catholic priest is shot to death. 11 Whitney Ransick
@ January 4, 1996 Carter gets the chance to control the treatment of a patient named Ruby without Benton's supervision, Benton gets invited to a formal dinner party by Dr. Vucelich, Greene
receives the summons for his divorce and twenty-two children locked up in an apartment get sent to County for medical treatment. 12 Lesli Linka Glatter January 25, 1996 Carter's relief is
short lived when Ruby retums to the ER, Benton attends his boss' dinner party and takes Jeannie Boulet as his date, Dr. Morgenstern is admitted to the ER for a fractured leg wearing a kilt. Dr
Greene spends the day with his daughter, Rachel, who is unhappy about his separation from his wife and hostile towards Susan Lewis. A woman doesn't care that her alcoholic mom is going to
die, and Carol tells Doug to ease up on a father who was a drunk but is now sober and trying to be strong for his young son. 13 ""It's Not Easy Being Greene Paul Manning Christopher
Chulack February 1, 1996 Dr Greene gets bad news regarding the O'Brien lawsuit, and then works on a case where a patient dies for no apparent reason. Dr. Carter takes credit for Harper's,
findings. Dr. Benton becomes suspicious of Dr. Vucelich's research. 14 Richard Thorpe February 8, 1996 Dr Benton leams that doing the right thing isn't always that easy. Rumors fly that Dr
Greene and Lewis are having an affair, while Susan intervenes in a case involving a couple where both parties are drunk and one has HIV. 15 Barnet Kellman February 15, 1996 The
maternity ward experiences some problems and all patients must be treated by the ER staff. Dr. Ross and his father finally have a fun evening together, and Harper faces a pregnancy scare.

16 Mimi Leder February 22, 1996 Nurse Hathaway worries when she learns her paramedic boyfriend, Shep, has run into a burning building to try to save the kids inside. Though it is Shep's
partner, Raul, who suffers the worst injuries and the ER staff grieves in the aftermath. Chloe returns to Susan's dismay. 17 Thomas Schlamme March 28, 1996 Dr Lewis's sister Chloe comes
back and says she wants baby Susie back, but Susan's not interested in dealing with Chloe. Dr Benton feels guilty about his own inability to do the right thing, so he betrays Dr Ross when faced
with an ethical dilemma, earning him the enmity of both Doug and Mark Greene. Mark tries to a cooler image and gets sympathy from an attractive TV producer. Carter celebrates his match to
County in a way that might end his medical career before it begins. 18 Lance Gentile April 4, 1996 It is Dr Greene's fourth night on the graveyard shift and things aren't looking too great
when it is being overrun with patients. Tension continues between Mark and Peter Benton, but the shift work brings greater respect between Mark and Dr. Carter. 19 F lix Enr quez Alcal April
25, 1996 Nurse Hathaway notices a dramatic change in Shep's behavior. Dr. Weaver allows some people to film the procedures in the ER. Carter's sneaky moves to get more surgical work in
ruins his relationship with Harper. Susan finds out she won't get support from her family in the custody battle because Chloe seems to have cleaned up her act. 20 Richard Thorpe May 2,
1996 Dr Lewis deals with losing little Susie by, impressing Dr. Weaver in the process. Dr Greene comes to friendly terms with his ex wife Jen as their divorce is finalized. Carter works with Dr.
Ross in a pediatrics rotation. 21 Anthony Edwards May 9, 1996 Boulet learns something disturbing from her ex husband Al. Nurse Hathaway covers up for Shep's increasingly violent mood
and gets him cleared of work charges, but recognizes he's gone over the edge. Dr Weaver makes a deal with Dr. Greene in her quest in becoming an ER attending. Susan has therapy sessions
that moum the loss of little Suzie. 22 May 16, 1996 Nielsen Ratings: 34.3 million viewers Dr. Lewis refuses the position as chief resident. Boulet tells Dr Benton he must get tested for HIV.
Nurse Hathaway quits in disgust and tells Shep she can't be with him anymore. Dr Carter misses his degree ceremony and then decides to join Dr. Benton's team for his surgical residency. []
edit Season 3: 1996 1997 Christopher Chulack September 26, 1996 Dr Carter starts his first day as a surgical intern. Nurse Hathaway goes back to working in the ER. Boulet and Dr Benton
receive news about their test. Nielsen Ratings: 34.9 million viewers 2 Tom Moore October 3, 1996 The Southside hospital gets shut down and its employees merges with County General
hospital. Nurse Hathaway considers selling her house. Boulet keeps her HIV status a secret. 3 Dr Benton has trouble dealing working with Boulet and starts to work as a pediatric surgeon. 4
Rod Holcomb October 17, 1996 Dr Benton doesn't seem to have the compassion needed for being a pediatric surgeon, while Dr Carter does. Dr Ross fights his inner demons as well as the
stares from the ER staff. 5 Richard Thorpe October 31, 1996 Dr Lewis comes back from vacation. Nurse Hathaway and Dr Ross take their tum in the mobile health van. Intern Gant learns
that Dr Benton is harder on him than he is with Dr Carter. 6 Christopher Chulack November 7, 1996 Dr Lewis and Greene rush to a car accident in a helicopter. Dr Benton makes a mistake
during surgery. 7 David Nutter November 14, 1996 Dr Lewis makes an announcement. Dr Benton feels guilty about his involvement in a babys critical condition and tries to save another
brain dead child. Nielsen Ratings: 37.4 million viewers (highest rated of season three) 8 Tom Moore November 21, 1996 Time and Cupid wait for no man. A wedding in the waiting room
contrasts with Greene's inability to express feelings to Lewis, even though it is her last day in the ER. 9 ""Ask Me No Questions, I'll Tell You No Lies Neal Baer & Lydia Woodward (story),
(teleplay) Barbara Hall Paris Barclay December 12, 1996 Jeanies confidential medical files aren't confidential when Greene checks them and confirms his suspicions that she has HIV. Keton
levels with Carter about their relationship. 10 Davis Guggenheim December 19, 1996 What child is this? Street kid Charlie brings a drug-addled women's baby to Ross for Treatment. Jeanie
comes clean about her HIV. Carol observes Ukrainian Christmas with familyand two unexpected guests. 11 Jonathan Kaplan January 16, 1997 Anight that begins slowly soon ignites: Greene
risks his career to save a life. Benton discovers Carter's secret. Charlie suffers a beating and the ER suffers the shocking loss of one of its own. 12 Jacque Elaine Toberen January 23, 1997
Gant's death weighs heavily on Carter, and his anger grows over how Benton treated the inter. Carol copes with a makeshift RN staff during a labor sickout and takes the blame for a fatal
trauma-room error. 13 Michael Katleman January 30, 1997 A good day for Greene: he and Marquez end their romance amicably, and his mentoring of prospective interns earns praise. A
lousy day for Hathaway: she's suspended from the staff. 14 F lix Enr quez Alcal February 6, 1997 Carter is the delighted surgeon when Benton needs an appendectomy. Ross grapples with
teen's DNR request. Greene proves that the only thing worse than a two-timing cad is a three-timer. 15 Christopher Chulack February 13, 1997 Guest starring Ewan McGregor as
convenience store gunman. Carol is caught in a hostage situation in a neighbourhood store and helps the victims while the hostages are still there. 16 Jonathan Kaplan February 20, 1997
Benton is recovering from his surgery, but not from the death of Gant. Greene places a downs-syndrome patient on a heart transplant list and Ross has to pull the plug on an 18-year-old male
that no longer wants to live. 17 Richard Thorpe April 10, 1997 Do assumptions about race cloud Greene's judgement? Incidents involving two gunshot victims - one white, one black - and a
black woman with an undetected heart ailment cause him to reassess his thinking. 18 Christopher Chulack April 17, 1997 Carter puts his career in jeopardy when he circumvents channels to
arrange surgery for a racetrack gambler. And Jeanie reconsiders her plight when she cares for an AIDS victim loathed by her unforgiving husband. 19 Neal Baer (story), Jason Cahill &
Samantha Howard Corbin (teleplay) Paris Barclay April 24, 1997 A mouse in the house - and perhaps a new doctor-in-training, too. A genetically engineered lab mouse escapes into the ER.
Hathaway weighs her career options after she scores high on the MCAT. 20 Jonathan Kaplan May 1, 1997 A brother donates a kidney to his sister, a stroke victim receives life-saving
treatment, and Jeanie's ex is accepted into a new AIDS-drug study. But violence involving Greene casts a pall over the acts of healing and compassion. 21 (story), Lydia Woodward (teleplay)
Joe Sachs Richard Thorpe May 8, 1997 It's Hathaway's birthday, but she doesn't want to hear about it. And it's the birth day of Carla and Peter's son when she goes into early labor. Greene
retums to the ER, but settling in proves difficult. 22 "One More for the Road John Wells Christopher Chulack May 15, 1997 Ross is increasingly drawn to Hathaway, Charlie reappears at the
ER, Greene refuses to admit that he needs help and Carter and Anspaugh are still at loggerheads. Meanwhile, the Boulets find strength in their renewed relationship, and Benton draws strength
from his tiny newborn son. Nielsen Ratings: 34.9 million viewers [] edit Season 4: 1997 1998 Thomas Schlamme September 25, 1997 A PBS camera crew invades the ER to film a
documentary. A new British surgeon, Elizabeth Corday, uses unfamiliar medical terms. Dr. Morgenstern suffers from a heart attack. Nielsen Ratings: 42.7 million viewers (highest rated episode
of season four) 2 Christopher Chulack October 2, 1997 Still suffering emotionally from his beating, Greene misdiagnoses his cases. Benton and Carla finally name their son, who is
recovering from his premature birth, Hathaway and Ross continue their secret affair. Carter deals with the loss of his seniority due to his move from surgery to the ER. 3. F lix Enr quez Alcal
October 9, 1997 Jeanie's ex-husband is forced to reveal his HIV-positive status to his employer and loses his job. Weaver is named the temporary replacement for Morganstem, and informs
Ross the terms of his fellowship are going to change. Carter is jealous over Maggie Doyle's rapport with Dr. Del Amico. Benton's son is circumsized against his dad's wishes. Greene has a date
with a water polo player, but his trauma ruins things. The arrival of an arms-dealer couple as patients leads to mayhem and Jerry's advised to take a long sabbatical. 4 Richard Thorpe
October 16, 1997 The after-effects of Greene's beating threaten his visitation rights with his daughter. Carter and Del Amico work with new med students. Both Jeanie and her ex-husband
have job difficulties due to their HIV-positive status. Weaver suggests that Ross find a research grant to keep his job. Carter and Benton come to blows over Carter's switch to emergency
medicine, The staff unites to treat victims of a bus crash, and a drug-addicted pregnant woman leads to a new direction for Carol. 5 Jonathan Kaplan October 30, 1997 Hathaway comes up
with the idea of a pediatric clinic for the ER, and starts looking for funding. Ross and Del Amico don't mesh on a puzzling case involving a young athlete. Greene is deposed in a malpractice suit.
Benton is having trouble juggling work and parenthood. Jeannie watches Al and his former best friend get in a violent brawl. Benton meets Dr. Corday's sponsor, Dr. Robert "Rocket" Romano.

6 Darnell Martin November 6, 1997 Anspaugh asks Benton to work with Dr. Romano. Greene confides in Cynthia, the temporary receptionist, as his life continues to go downhill. After
conferring with Synergix, a firm that helps streamline hospital operating costs, Weaver fires Jeannie for financial reasons. Hathaway meets with Carter's rich grandmother, Millicent "Gamma"
Carter, about funding her clinic. Doug finds out that his father has died. 7 Christopher Chulack November 13, 1997 Greene and Ross travel to California to claim Doug's deceased father's
belongings. Along the way the two visit the home of Greene's parents, and receive a surprise visitor. 8 Darnell Martin November 20, 1997 Maggie Doyle helps Jeanie get assistance to get
her job back. Romano, Benton and Corday operate on a unique case involving a boy with reversed organs. Hathaway's clinic is forced open early when Cynthia sends the advertisement for it
too soon. One of Carter's incompetent former students retums to redo his clerkship, and ends up being a patient. Mark Greene meets a lawyer who can end his legal troubles in exchange for
spending a day observing the ER. 9 Richard Thorpe December 11, 1997 Synergix starts setting up shop at County General. Defending a patient he suspects is abused, Carter is arrested for
refusing to cooperate with a cop. Weaver agrees to give Jeanie her job back. Cynthia rubs Greene's ex-wife the wrong way concerning Rachel. Greene's lawyer tours the ER and ends up saving
a life himself. Corday operates to save the leg of a young woman named Alison Beaumont, and the patient goes into a coma, causing Corday to question her own ambitions. 10 Sarah Pia
Anderson December 18, 1997 On Christmas Eve, Benton and Del Amico develop a weird following after he apparently causes a blind man to see with his touch. Greene deals with an elderly
rape victim. Corday continues her soulsearching regarding Alison's coma, but Romano helps her. Greene finds out that Cynthia has a child of her own, and finally puts his trauma in the past.
Weaver develops a camaraderie with the Synergix representative, Dr. Ellis West. Gamma Carter tours the dinic with Hathaway and Jeanie, and grants extra funding. Dr. Carter discovers that his
cousin, Chase, has a heroin problem. Doug and Carol reveal their romance to the ER. 11 Charles Haid January 8, 1998 On a particularly cold night, the ER is swamped with freezing
homeless people. Weaver pushes hard for Synergix to take over ER management. Jeanie works with Dr. Anspaugh's son, Scott, who fears his cancer has retumed. Corday earns Romano's ire
while continuing to work with Alison, who now has a problem with her voice. Benton and Carter make a presentation to med students. Ross and Hathaway consider marriage but Carol's mom
isn't happy to lear her daughter's dating Doug again. 12 Christopher Chulack January 15, 1998 Weaver questions Synergix's management practices as Ellis' budget cuts tend to shut down
trauma centers. Another elderly rape victim is found by Hathaway during a paramedic ridealong, prompting an alert for a serial rapist. Tension grows between Benton, Corday and Romano,
Jeannie lifts Scott's spirits as he faces a new battle against cancer. Carter and Del Amico work together to deal with Chase's withdrawal from heroin. 13 John Wells January 29, 1998 The
serial rapist is finally caught but needs treatment. A mentally challenged woman gives birth. Benton's son may be placed in day care, and he comes to terms with it with Corday's help. Ross
and Hathaway, and Greene and Cynthia, have relationship problems. Carter's actions in treating the serial rapist cause tension between himself and Del Amico. 14 Charles Haid February 5,
1998 Greene returns to San Diego to help when his mother is injured, prompting Cynthia to follow him. When his father gets ill as well, Greene finds himself assisting in a military hospital ER
after a helicopter crash. Greene and Cynthia are forced to re-evaluate their fading relationship, while Greene and his father become closer. 15 Walon Green and Joe Sachs Christopher
Chulack February 26, 1998 While Greene is gone, Carter has to take control when a nearby chemical spill sends the ER into chaos and knocks Weaver out of action. Ross and Hathaway take
risks to save a sick girl. Corday risks her own life to save a man trapped in a collapsed warehouse. 16 Jaque Toberen March 5, 1998 Weaver accuses Ross of presenting a flawed research
study. Greene searches for Cynthia. Carter comes to his grandparents for advice about Chase's drug addiction, but it comes too late as Chase overdoses. Corday receives her first performance
review from Romano and becomes closer to Benton. Scott and Jeanie continue their friendship. 17 Richard Thorpe April 9, 1998 Benton, Corday and Reese are involved in a car accident.
Scott's cancer worsens, bringing him back to Jeanie's care. Morgenstem returns, but is having difficulties on the job after his heart attack. Chase is left with severe brain damage after his
overdose, and Carter watches over him. Hathaway works on animal rights activists after a protest gone awry. Benton surprises Corday by showing up at her apartment. 18 TR Babu
Subramaniam April 16, 1998 Benton and Morganstern clash after a surgery is botched. Scott, with Jeanie's help, makes a choice about his cancer treatment. Carter helps Del Amico when she
is found to be a potential bone marrow donor for a patient. Dr. Ross protects an ill child. Greene organizes the ramshackle but fun annual ER banquet. Gamma Carter may cut funding to
Hathaway's clinic, forcing Dr. Carter to make a difficult decision. 19 Lance Gentile April 23, 1998 Benton and Corday's growing closeness causes problems with Benton's career. Alison
Beaumont is back after being injured in a fire. Carter deals with life without his family's financial support. Jeanie helps Dr. Anspaugh through a difficult day. Benton is forced to take the blame
for the botched surgery until Morganstern makes a shocking revelation. Ross counsels a family about their injured, pregnant daughter's treatment and their shunning of her boyfriend. 20 of
Past Regret and Future Fear Jack Orman Anthony Edwards April 30, 1998 Romano makes an offer that Corday refuses. Reese Benton is baptised. Ross and Hathaway have to make difficult
ethical choices concerning a baby addicted to methadone. Carter and Del Amico treat a man who can't speak clearly. Carol treats a man who is going to die from chemical burns and comes to a
decision about herself and Doug. 21 Christopher Misiano May 7, 1998 Del Amico's old boyfriend conducts a study at the hospital. A televangelist uses the E.R. to obtain money. Ross and
Hathaway risk their jobs to do an unorthodox treatment on the methadone-addicted baby. Jeanie tums to Weaver for help with some personal problems. 22 ""AHole in the Heart Lydia
Woodward Lesli Linka Glatter May 14, 1998 As Josh, the methadone-addicted baby, recovers from an ultra-rapid detox, Ross' personal and professional relationships suffer. Hathaway has
suspicions about a patient that attempted suicide. Corday's problems with Romano become critical. Carter's jealousy over Del Amico and her ex-boyfriend reaches a breaking point. Something
is wrong with Benton's son. [] edit Season 5: 1998 1999 Christopher Chulack September 24, 1998 New medical student Lucy Knight artives in the ER and has a trying first shift. Doug
chafes as Kerry enforces his probation stemming from the unauthorized detox work in Season 4. Nielsen Ratings: 31.9 million viewers [1] 2 Christopher Misiano October 1, 1998 Lucy Knight
is having some problems with the job, but Carter believes she's doing great. Peter and his son go to a doctor to find out the extent of Reese's hearing loss. Corday decides to be an intern again
and practices an experimental treatment with Romano under her father's watchful eye. Mark helps treat his daughter when she's injured during a soccer game. Kerry tries to embarrass Doug
further over his past actions. 3 TR Babu Subramaniam October 8, 1998 Benton performs dangerous surgery on a bomb-carrying man who was shot at a factory. Dr. Ross receives some good
news that Dr. Weaver doesn't embrace, but she has no recourse. Dr. Greene tries to help a horse that is in pain. Jeanie Boulet retums from her vacation. 4 Lesli Linka Glatter October 15,
1998 Carter finds out that Lucy doesn't know how to start an IV, Weaver interviews for a job as the ER Chief. Benton keeps his son's disease a secret. Jeanie intervenes when she finds out a
liver transplant candidate is drinking again, and later asks Doug if she can be assigned to work for his pedes project in the ER. Corday gets stuck as the intem of dismissive and insulting Dr.
Dale Edson. 5 Steve De Jamatt October 29, 1998 It's Halloween in the ER, and the medical students throw a party; as a result, Carter decides that Lucy isn't mature enough to take
responsibilities. A candidate for the ER Chief position arrives from New York and drives home disappointment for Kerry. Mark screws up when he doesn't recognize a homeless schizophrenic
woman is pregnant before treating her. Benton treats Corday to a fun Halloween. 6 David Nutter November 5, 1998 The board decides to extend the search for a new ER Chief, leaving Kerry
waiting for a decision. Benton visits a doctor who is deaf-mute and he realizes that there is nothing wrong with his son. Mark saves the life of a gay prostitute and then tries to get the kid to
avoid reckless behavior. Carter loses his Resident Advisor job because of Lucy, then blames her for not going along with his plan to defraud an insurance company, but she inadvertently leads
him to shave off a nasty-looking beard he'd been growing. Corday saves two lives and impresses Benton enough that he decides to request she be his inter instead of Dale's. Carol tries to help
an elderly Jewish guy find a place to live. 7 Jonathan Robert Kaplan November 12, 1998 Carter and Weaver become unlikely roommates. Lucy is having problems with Carter and Dr. Greene
picks up on their squabbling. Corday works long shifts which leads to her exhaustion and a critical medical error, causing a rift with Dr. Anspaugh and problems for Benton. Greene has
unpleasant flashbacks when he's hazed by the well-meaning paramedics. Jeanie worries when she and Doug treat a young boy whose childlike mother clearly depends on his 6-year sister to
make all decisions. Kerry rediscovers her joy of practicing medicine and decides not to pursue the open ER Chief job, which goes instead to a Dr. Amanda Lee. 8 Christopher Chulack
November 19, 1998 A man arrives at the ER with his daughter who is gravely injured, the leaves the ER leaving his daughter in a critical situation because her father is the only one who is a
match for her blood type. Carter and Lucy alternately bicker and work well together as they try to track the father done, and put their problems behind them at the end of the day. Meanwhile,
snafus involving the blood supply lead Benton to perform an unprecedented operation to save the little girl. 9 Rod Holcomb December 10, 1998 Corday faces M&M where the board were
discussing about the mistake that Corday made after she gave the wrong diagnosis to a patient. She decides to take the offensive and let the board know how wrong it is for her and any other
doctor to work 36 hours. The board decides to do nothing about it, and she later decides to amicably end her relationship with Benton. At the hospital arrives Ruth Johnson who was born 100
years ago in that same hospital and share some experiences with Carter. Carol is horrified by the true story behind a young boy's fatal shooting. 10 Lesli Linka Glatter December 17, 1998
It's Christmas day on the ER. An 18-year-old boy arrives brain-dead, and Carter has to convince his parents to donate his organs, since a 16-year-old girl needs a liver. Benton risks his career
by preventing Romano from operating under the influence. Ross and Hathaway have a religious dispute over how to deal with a pregnant 13-year-old. Corday is charmed by a musician who is
facing surgery for testicular cancer. Dr. Lee flirts with Mark but turns out to have some major issues and strange story-telling habits. 11 ""Nobody Doesn't Like Amanda Lee Linda Gase
Richard Thorpe January 7, 1999 Dr. Greene discovers that Amanda Lee is a fake and Anspaugh never saw through her credentials. When Lee finds out that Greene is suspicious, she locks him
with a patient inside. An old friend of Greene's recommends him for a NASA mission. Benton's son is having difficulties in day care. Doug and Carol help the exhausted mother named Joi of a
little boy named Ricky who has a terminal illness. Carter is jealous when Lucy goes ona date with Dale, 12 Dave Charmeides January 21, 1999 Lucy begins her surgical rotation under
Benton and Corday. Romano offers to get Corday's fellowship reinstated and asks her to assist him in surgery. Weaver interrogates Corday, asking if Romano ever sexually harassed her. Corday
denies it and concludes that Doyle must have filed charges. Ross jeopardizes a liquid pain medicine study by surreptitiously giving some of the drug to Joi's son, Ricky. Greene discovers the
secret and informs Weaver. They decide not to tell Anspaugh because, by violating protocol on a federally-funded trial, the hospital would be unable to obtain research money and Medicare
payments for years. 13 Christopher Chulack February 4, 1999 Ross helps the mother of a dying boy; Benton attends a parent/child signing class. Corday doesn't give her account in the case
against Dr. Romano. Romano blackmails Corday into dropping her support for Doyle's harassment lawsuit against Romano, but Kerry gets Romano to rewrite his insulting and inaccurate review
of Doyle's job performance. The ER unites to help an injured woman who needs to find temporary homes for her many dogs as she gets treatment. Mark treats the hospital janitor, Mobalage,
whose injuries suggest he has been tortured in the past. Carter discovers something with one of the med students he is mentoring. 14 John Wells February 11, 1999 Joi's son dies, and
Doug's role his death is exposed after the boy's father shows up and starts demanding information. Hathaway's clinic is temporarily closed. Mark and Kerry's cover-up of Doug's earlier actions
to help Joi is also revealed. Kerry suspends Doug from work and Carol chastises him for his selfish actions. The ER responds to a school bus accident. While on-site to the scene, Jeanie tells
Doug she supports his actions but right afterwards the car swerves and crashes on the icy road. 15 Christopher Chulack February 18, 1999 The ERis flooded with victims of the school bus
accident. Jeanie is not badly injured from the previous episode's crash but gets other bad medical news. Mobalage's wife is having doubts about her husbands surgery and shares a horrifying
secret with Hathaway after she's brought in with stab wounds. Carter and Lucy decide not to pursue a relationship after making out in a previous episode. Ross makes a decision regarding his
status at County. Nielsen Ratings: 35.7 million viewers (highest rated episode of season five) 16 Jonathan Robert Kaplan February 25, 1999 Benton travels to a Mississippi clinic during his
vacation time to earn money for his son's therapy, and becomes a local hero when he uses his medical knowledge to help several residents. 17 Felix Enriquez Alcala March 25, 1999 Carter
deals with tenant drama at an apartment tower during a ridealong that later has deadly consequences, Lucy has to hide a cancer diagnosis from an ill woman at the behest of the patient's
family, Carol finds out she is pregnant, Kerry reflects on her own family issues when an injured wrestler comes to the ER, and Greene continues to help Mobalage, who may be deported if he
can't tell the INS about the abuse he suffered in Nigeria. 18 Christopher Misiano April 8, 1999 Greene uses a past trauma to help Mobalage save himself from deportation. Carter applies for
chief resident and spends the day in charge of the ER, where he misunderstands a case involving the many broken bones of a baby, while Lucy begins her first psych rotation. Weaver may have
found her biological mother, but defies a DNR order to find out for sure. Benton and Corday clash over a surgical fellowship. 19 Jonathan Robert Kaplan April 29, 1999 Carter mentors a
talented teen from a very rough neighborhood. Romano is upset about Benton's interest in the fellowship. Lucy continues impressive work in her Psych rotation, treating a law student with
homicidal impulses and an angry youngster who is being severely over-medicated. Jeanie continues to grapple with her Hepatitis-C but gets a huge boost from a kindly minister. Hathaway
reveals she is pregnant after a kid kicks her in the stomach, risking her baby. Greene and Corday attempt to go to a ball for trauma physicians but end up getting lost repeatedly while having a
lot of fun hanging out together. 20 Laura Innes May 6, 1999 Romano observes the ER, and rubs the staff the wrong way. Lucy finds out that an elderly patient's bedsore is really much more.
Carter breaks up with his girlfriend. The power goes out at County General, and the doctors must keep critical patients alive. Corday investigates the rape of a comatose patient. 21
Christopher Chulack May 13, 1999 The ER has to deal with a stripper and some shady dealings from apparent FBI agents. Lucy reveals to Carter that she's still on Ritalin. Hathaway begins to
reveal her pregnancy to those closest to her, including a fax to Doug. Dr. Anspaugh decides that the trauma fellowship will go to Benton, who then faces anger from Romano and Corday. A car
accident involving teenagers may have been alcohol-related and leaves one teenager with grievous third-degree bums. 22 Jonathan Robert Kaplan May 20, 1999 The rest of the staff finds
out that Hathaway is pregnant. Benton begins a custody battle for his son when Carla Reese reveals an intention to marry Roger and take the child to Germany. Weaver rescues a toddler that
has been drugged. Carter's protege is mugged and beaten up. Greene and Corday fall in love. Nielsen Ratings: 32.6 million viewers [] edit Season 6: 1999 2000 Jonathan Kaplan September
30, 1999 Greene and Weaver agree to go out on a limb to oppose Romano's appointment as chief of staff. Soon Greene finds he's out there and alone, while Kerry reaps immediate benefits for
her treachery. Plus: Luka Kovac is an able, yet untrusted, physician from Croatia; Dr. Carter's interested in a romance with his cousin's ex-wife; and Carol adjusts to being pregnant by herself.
Nielsen Ratings: 31.5 million viewers 2 F lix Enr quez Alcal October 7, 1999 Who's the boss? Weaver may be head of the ER, but Greene has his own ideas about how to handle situations
and after his mother's death the two of them have their worst conflict on the job yet. Boulet says "yes" to Reggie, and Corday accepts Romano's surprise job offer. A brash new resident arrives
and manages to annoy just about everyone. Carla confronts Benton about his not allowing her to leave the country with their son. 3 Peter Markle October 14, 1999 Newly appointed
attending physician Gabriel Lawrence is savvy, personable and, in Greene's jealous opinion, unsuitable for County. Jeanie and Reggie marry, but not under the circumstances they expected.
Romano makes Corday show a rude reporter around the ER, where she witnesses a shootout. 4 Ken Kwapis October 21, 1999 Long-distance MD: Via phone. Greene deals with fallout from
his dad's car accident. Lawrence suspects a teen's suicide attempt is the fallout from father-son strife, but he's wrong. Finch misdiagnoses a child's behavior before an iron overdose overtakes
her. Carol tries to help a pregnant teenager get a job at the hospital, and Dr. Dave Malucci is a jerk again. 5 Steve De Jamatt November 4, 1999 A high school science experiment/prank
gone-wrong lands students and teacher in the ER - and the stress of multiple emergencies pushes Lawrence over the edge. Mark defends a patient from a violent parent and ends up being
castigated for it. Lucy Knight helps counsel one of the injured student. Carol learns the pregnant teen she wanted to help is using drugs. 6 Richard Thorpe November 11, 1999 Endings.
Boulet resigns to be a full-time mother. An elderly woman bids farewell to her dying husband, and Lawrence admits he's in the early stages of Alzheimer's, and that his distinguished career is
over. Carol takes action regarding the pregnant teen case. An explosion rocks the ER, and Benton tells Carla why he's fighting to stay in his son's life. 7 Jonathan Kaplan November 18, 1999
 Lawrence departs (but not before saving a life), and Kovac comes aboard full time after earning Kerry's respect. Corday discovers her new trauma patient is a rapist and takes extreme
measures to find his latest victim. Carol and the drug-using teen have a confrontation. Carter angles for more responsibility inside the ER. Greene's father was due to fly into Chicago but
doesn't show up for hours after his scheduled arrival time. And the Bright Star Gospel Choir is rushed to the ER. 8 Christopher Misiano November 25, 1999 It's Thanksgiving, and Hathaway
has two more reasons to give thanks after overcoming complication and delivering twins Tess and Kate. Greene's family celebration comes with its own complications. Dr. Malucci stuns the staff
by actually having a valid idea to treat a patient that works. 9 Fred Einesman December 16, 1999 Lucy Knight risks Romano's wrath (and her career) to arrange a heart operation for a
patient. Carter gives gifts to inner city kids in exchange for their guns. Finch uses her authority to put a teen binge drinker into rehab. Benton and Carla's custody battle comes to an abrupt end
that works out in his favor. Kerry befriends a group of Santas and works on County's Y2K preparation. 10 Anthony Edwards January 6, 2000 New name, same person: Deb Chen retums to
the ER as Jing-Mei Chen and immediately shows off her great memory to Carter's annoyance. Kovac's strong sense of family involves him in the fate of brothers facing separation. Greene
invites his dad to reside with him in Chicago. Dr. Malucci fixes Kerry's car and learns a young patient has a fatal disease. Goofball students arrive in the ER to do a scavenger hunt. Benton
doesn't agree with Cleo's approach to an overstressed young high school athlete. 11 Lesli Linka Glatter January 13, 2000 Try, try again. A precious donor heart becomes available when a
patient who recently received it dies, devastating Lucy Knight. Malucci gathers evidence to shut down a backroom clinic. Carter and Chen disagree on when to follow rules and when to break
them. Dr. Greene leams a man is being abused by his boyfriend. 12 Richard Thorpe February 3, 2000 Anew road: Abby Lockhart, the part-time OB nurse who cared for Hathaway during
"Great Expectations", reports to the ER for her third-year med-student rotation. Hathaway has a hunch that a young patient's health problems come from his mother. Carter and Cleo try to help
a sick boy and the unpopular student he fought with. Kerry leaves the ER due to the flu, while Dave Malucci works in spite of it and Benton angles Romano's illness into some help for a young
girl who was mauled by a dog. 13 Laura Innes February 10, 2000 A tense Valentine's Day includes an operation on Romano's dog, a car crash that leaves two children orphaned and Carter
and Lucy lying in pools of blood after they're attacked by a schizophrenic patient. 14 Jonathan Kaplan February 17,2000 Weaver finds Carter and Knight, and the grief-stricken ER crew work
feverishly to save their grievously wounded colleagues. Then the deranged assailant is brought in, the victim of a car accident. Cleo's forced into a surgical role when Benton won't leave Carter,
and Corday and Romano desperately try to save Lucy's life. Nielsen Ratings: 39.4 millon viewers (Highest rated of the season) 15 Ken Kwapis February 24, 2000 Tough times. Carter
struggles with rehab and knowledge of Lucy's fate, a child is injured in a hit and run in front of Dr. Kovac (and the driver later turns up in the ER) and a teen has cervical cancer after too much
sex. Dr. Malucci Even a happy event, a romance between Isabelle and David, turns sad when Greene leams his dad is terminally ill. 16 Christopher Misiano March 23, 2000 "We can handle
this." This, it turns out, involves a Gila monster, toxic breast milk, a deadly error and much more as Greene oversees a particularly hectic shift. Carter, despite his pain, returns to work. Jing-Mei
is attracted to a male nurse. 17 Marita Grabiak April 6, 2000 Many candidates. One kidney. Kovac and Corday must select a recipient while the organ is still viable. Weaver defies Romano on
treating a poorly-insured patient and is suspended. Benton's careless penmanship results in a patient taking the wrong drugs, and he sells out Finch, though she still has sex with him later on.
Chen wants to tell a patient about her fathers diagnosis of Huntington's Disease but Mark puts the brakes on that, while Mark has his own conflict with both his father and Corday over his dad's
desire to check into a medical hostel. 18 Jonathan Kaplan April 13, 2000 A notice of Knight's acceptance into psych residency deepens Carter's remorse. Greene cares for his dad. Hathaway
has news from Ross. And an overwhelmed mother tries to induce a miscarriage before getting help from Abby. 19 Richard Thorpe April 27, 2000 Memories. After his father reminisces about
his Navy days, Greene takes him on a final boat ride on Lake Michigan. Meanwhile, Carter is haunted by terrifying thoughts of the attack that almost killed him. And Abby goes too far when
trying to arrange for a bone-marrow transplant. 20 Kevin Hooks May 4, 2000 Malucci treats a little girl who was molested by her father. Hathaway's birthday is anything but happy. Benton
and Kovac dash over follow-up care. Carter seems reinvigorated but also ignores the orders of his supervisors. And Greene and his dad manage to express their love just before the older man
dies. 21 John Wells May 11, 2000 Do open arms still await her in Seattle? Touched by a family tragedy at the ER, Hathaway realizes she must see Ross. Chen notices Carter's increasing
unreliability and mood swings. Abby is supervised by Malucci on a case that leads Elizabeth to tell Dr. Dave that no one at County thinks he's any good at his job. 22 Jonathan Kaplan May 18,
2000 Kovac and Benton rush to the scene of a playground shooting, leading to a confrontation over the most critical patient. The team plan an intervention when Carter's addiction forces them
to act. And the ultimate price could be his patient's - or his own - life. Kovacs sense of right and wrong impacts a pair of difficult cases. Nielsen Ratings: 34.6 million viewers [] edit Season 7:
2000 2001 Jonathan Kaplan October 12, 2000 Cleaning employees and construction workers strike at County General, Carter comes back out of rehab, a football game riot continues in the
ER and Greene and Corday come back from their vacation only to find out they have a terrible rash. Nielsen Ratings: 29.3 millon viewers 2 Christopher Misiano October 19, 2000 Carter
retums to County General accepting Greene and Weaver's terms. Abby becomes his AA sponsor, Greene and Corday are buying a bigger house and decide to get married. Benton has trouble
with Romano over a surgery for a patient whose insurance doesn't cover him anymore, 3 Paris Barclay October 26, 2000 Ona short-staffed day, Weaver limits Carter's tasks, Kovac needs
Abby to do medical procedures she is no longer cleared to do, Benton learns Romano bounced him, and injured attendees from a sci-fi convention are rushed in. 4 Richard Thorpe November
2, 2000 Romano offers a per diem position to Benton with no benefits and no stature. A humbled Benton is forced to accept. Kovac lethally pounds a mugger who confronts him and Abby. 5
 Lesli Linka Glatter November 9, 2000 The tragedy of teens diagnosed as HIV-positive is compounded by a fatal street accident. A med-emergency flight is followed by the transported
patient's wedding in the ER. 6 Jonathan Kaplan November 16, 2000 Abby is visited by her bipolar mother Maggie, Peter's nephew comes into the ER with a serious gunshot wound, Luka
suspects a young girl is being abused by her father and Elizabeth juggles her desire for a weekend getaway with Mark with treating one more patient. 7 Christopher Chulack November 23,
2000 It's a rainy day at County. Corday is sued for malpractice. Maggie won't leave till Abby talks to her. Chen's mother learns of her daughter's pregnancy, and Corday also leams she's
pregnant, but Mark Greene has the worst feeling of all when he loses control of his faculties during a trauma. 8 Christopher Misiano December 7, 2000 Greene revealed to Corday that he
had a biopsy and said the tumor is inoperable. Abby's mother caused a major ruckus at a department store. Corday attended her deposition for malpractice on her previous patient, the surfer.
Benton's nephew's girlfriend comes into the ER. 9 Jonathan Kaplan December 14, 2000 Chen gives birth, and struggles with the decision to give her baby up for adoption. Benton helps a
young girl who is being forced to donate white blood cells to her ill sister. Corday and Greene travel to New York, and find hope when they meet a surgeon who can operate on Mark's tumour.
10 David Nutter January 4, 2001 While Greene undergoes surgery in New York to remove his brain tumor, County General is absorbed in the case of father and son that were in a car
accident. The episode makes much use of . first person perspective 11 Jonathan Kaplan January 11, 2001 Kovac treats a bishop who took a fall and questions Luka's faith. Abby pressures
Carter to tell Weaver about the Vicodin he nearly took. Abby later tells him that she cannot be his sponsor anymore. After Kynesha is placed with a foster family, Benton and Finch discover their
home trashed by her. Corday's malpractice suit is settled; Mr. Patterson later visits her at the hospital, causing Elizabeth to panic with another patient. Weaver and Legaspi are divided over
personal and professional issues. Carter treats a woman smuggling drugs by swallowing a condom full of cocaine. 12 F lix Enr quez Alcal February 1, 2001 Weaver and Legaspi have spent
the night together, although Kerry appears shy of beginning a relationship. She also battles Luka over calling the authorities about an illegal sweatshop employing one of his patients, which
causes the owners to torch the place. Greene is back to work, but is mixing up his pronouns, referring to a male patient as a "she." Corday freezes again during surgery, but is able to overcome
her fears. Romano talks Benton into taking a job as County's director of diversity. In the wake of his Vicodin slip, Carter is banned from prescribing drugs. He later visits Chase at his home, and
admits his addiction. Abby treats two homy old men. 13 Richard Thorpe February 8, 2001 Bishop Stewart retums, seeking pain medication from Luka, who also has his hands full dealing
with the parents of a 16-year-old who does not want another heart transplant. Abby fills in as Carter's date for a Carter family function and sees her ex-husband there. Malucci treats a gay man
who wants to contract HIV from his positive partner. Greene continues an abrupt personality change in the wake of his surgery. Weaver makes an appointment for a competency review for
Mark, 14 ""A Walk in the Woods John Wells John Wells February 15, 2001 Weaver spends an evening with Legaspi and her lesbian friends. Greene is furious to learn about his competency
review; Corday screams at Weaver about ordering it. Chen retums from matemity leave and treats a young boy with measles. Benton struggles to get a young med student applicant an
interview after learning that he was only accepted due to affirmative action. Bishop Stewart returns in even worse condition. 15 Jonathan Robert Kaplan February 22, 2001 Carter meets a
new pedes intern, Rena Trujillo. He and Luka are then dispatched to the site of a major train wreck. Carter must perform a tricky double amputation on an injured firefighter after Corday goes
into early contractions at the scene. After Elizabeth returns to the hospital, Abby and Chen treat Corday, who is told to stay on bed rest. Benton lets prospective med student William White
follow him around the ER. Weaver calls Legaspi for a psych consult on a suicidal girl who caused the train crash by driving her car onto the tracks. Luka wrestles with his faith, revealing that he
could have saved his wife by sacrificing his daughter. Bishop Stewart grants him absolution before his death. 16 Guy Norman Bee March 1, 2001 After Abby leaves the room for a second, an
infant disappears from the hospital. After spending the night at her place, Carter is shocked to find out that Rena is a 19-year-old undergraduate. Greene gets his competency results--he
passed (was there ever any doubt?). Malucci and Mark treat a young boy injecting steroids who is frightened of his father. Legaspi has been accused of sexual misconduct by the teenager who
caused the train crash. Weaver is more concerned with hiding their relationship, so Kim dumps her. 17 Marita Grabiak March 29, 2001 Peter and Cleo may be at fault when a police officer
shoots and kills an old woman with dementia. Carter misinforms Rena and tells her that he and Abby had a past liaison. April Fool's Day causes the staffers to play pranks on each other;
Malucci gets the worst of it when Kovac injects him with Haldol, rendering him useless for the rest of the shift and getting his hand glued to his forehead while asleep. Corday endures a
particularly long surgery just to prove that she can despite her pregnancy. Greene treats three young students who have been huffing carpet cleaner. Luka treats another pregnant teenager,
who wants the comfort that a child will bring her. 18 Christopher Misiano April 19, 2001 Mark must overcome numerous obstacles, mostly weather-related, in order to get to the church to
marry Elizabeth, who is stuck with both of her bickering, divorced parents. Abby has a major cold, but cannot leave the hospital, due to most of the nurses being at the wedding. Many patients
come in to the ER from an accident involving a prison van; Luka and Carter clash over the treatment of an injured cop and a prisoner with a dislocated shoulder. While waiting for a flight to
Vegas, Weaver (who wasn't invited to the wedding), strikes up a conversation with a friendly man. Chen misses her son. Cleo doesn't want to go to the wedding, because the bride is Peter's
ex-girlfriend. 19 Laura Innes April 26, 2001 Corday goes into labor and delivers a baby girl named Ella. Benton treats his junior high school science teacher. Numerous college students come
into the ER, victims of fraternity/sorority pledging pranks and hazing rituals. Carter and Abby take a road trip to Oklahoma to pick up Maggie, who has locked herself in a motel room; then she
steals sleeping pills from a convenience store and attempts suicide. Rena dumps Carter over the phone. 20 Anthony Edwards May 3, 2001 Abby goes to court to argue for a 90-day psych
hold for her mother. Her mother is released, and later shows up at Luka's hotel room. Weaver treats an old childrens television show host and an animal suit fetishist. Carla checks into the
hospital after a fall. Benton treats Carl Ferris again after he suffers a heart attack. Malucci clashes with Jing-Mei and Cleo when his past track record gets him in trouble. Carter treats a young
girl whose boyfriend has been interfering with her pregnancy by feeding her herbal root extracts to cause a natural abortion. Chen treats a patient with a talent for numbers. Malucci calls in a
priest to perform an exorcism. 21 Dee Johnson and Meredith Stiehm Richard Thorpe May 10, 2001 Abby is flabbergasted when Maggie reveals her plans to move back to her birthplace of
Minneapolis. Abby reveals to her mother that she was pregnant once, but had an abortion, scared about the genetic possibility of herself or her child turning out bipolar. Meanwhile, Carter and
Chen are both shot down in their bids for chief resident, after which she tells Weaver she is a victim of discrimination. Weaver meets Legaspi's new girlfriend. Carla hits on Benton and freaks
out at Cleo after she turns her back on Reese for a second and he injures himself. Mark treats a young abused boy with an extremely irate father. Most of the ER staff play in a softball game
after work. 22 Jonathan Kaplan May 17, 2001 The father of the abused boy that Mark treated last week goes on a shooting rampage throughout the city, looking for anyone connected with
the placing of his son in a foster care facility. Mark fears for Elizabeth and baby Ella's safety when Corday doesn't answer her pager. Chen moves one step closer to the chief resident position
Romano fires Legaspi. Weaver confronts Romano, and comes out to him, threatening that she will quit if Kim is not rehired. Carla's husband, Roger, accuses Benton of sleeping with Carla. Cleo
cuts her hand while treating an HIV-positive patient. Luka draws unhappiness from Abby when he sends in her med school reapplication without her consent. Carter expresses his feelings to
Abby and begins thinking about his future at another hospital. While treating the shooter alone in an elevator, Mark makes a critical decision regarding his care when the man flatlines. Nielsen
Ratings: 30.7 million viewers [] edit Season 8: 2001 2002 Christopher Misiano September 27, 2001 Greene hides his role in a killer's death, Carter buries a loved one and must deal with his
chilly socialite parents, and Weaver returns to work fearing she's been outed. Meanwhile, Cleo begins to suffer from the side effects of her HIV treatment, Benton reaches out to his grieving
sister, and the ER tems with patients after a feud erupts at a local talk show. Nielsen Ratings: 28.1 million viewers 2 Jonathan Kaplan October 4, 2001 Gridlock in the ER leaves an off-duty
Carter to handle Chen and Malucci's fatal error. Benton gets tragic news about Carla, Kovac ends it with Abby after she shows her true colors, and Greene begins to see the downside of being
married to a fellow doctor. Meanwhile, a man from Weaver's past arrives with a lead on her birth mother. 3 Richard Thorpe October 11, 2001 Weaver takes dire action after catching Malucci
with his pants down, Greene's teen daughter drops by County with some unexpected news, an abandoned baby in Chen's care seems to have healing powers, and Abby ropes Carter into
helping her fix a fishy mistake she made while clearing her stuff out of Kovac's place. 4 Felix Enriquez Alcala October 18, 2001 Dr. Susan Lewis returns and a simple lunch date with Greene
leads to a new job at County General. Meanwhile, Abby's attempt to make peace with Kovac is impeded by the arrival of his bartending lady friend. Chen takes drastic action after Weaver strips
her of the chief-residency position, and Benton works to save a man who thinks his death will improve his family's financial future. 5 Vondie Curtis-Hall October 25, 2001 On her first day
back, Lewis puts her new job in jeopardy after clashing with Weaver over a pregnant teen who may be deported if her parents leam of her condition. Meanwhile, Corday comes under fire after
losing a patient to an odd infection she may be spreading, Carter's grandmother arrives in need of medical care, but she's opposed to his aid, and Abby bristles at a newly emerging relationship
inthe ER. 6 Jonathan Kaplan November 1, 2001 Carter and Lewis race to stop a possible outbreak after two college students test positive for meningitis. A specialist shadows Corday to find
the root of the infection that has killed four of her elderly patients, Abby has a hard time letting Kovac go, especially once his enigmatic lady friend scores a job at the hospital, and Benton
squares off with Roger over his expanded and irritating role in Reese's life. 7 "If I Should Fall From Grace R. Scott Gemmill Laura Innes November 8, 2001 Carter discovers the sad truth
about what's ailing his grandmother. Roger sues Benton for custody of Reese, Nicole gets a grim life lesson during her first day of training as a nurse's aide, and Corday gets a possible lead on
why so many of her patients are dying. 8 TMPartly Cloudy, Chance of Rain Jack Orman David Nutter November 15, 2001 As a storm soaks Chicago, Weaver and Gallant race to save a
pregnant woman trapped in a crashed ambulance surrounded by live power lines. Carter's grandmother arrives with a mysterious injury and a morbid link to a hit-and-run victim, and Greene
treats a teen taking the fall for losing his baby brother in a flooded river. Meanwhile, Benton's hopes of winning custody of Reese are dashed by a fateful DNA test, Cleo ends her days at County
General, and Nicole gives Kovac bad news after being busted for burglary. 9