Alan M. Hantman, FAIA A Page Set Navigation element will display here when the current page becomes part of a Page Set The Architect of the Capitol is responsible to the United States

Congress for the maintenance, operation, development, and preservation of the United States Capitol Complex, which includes the Capitol, the congressional office buildings, the Library of
Congress buildings, the Supreme Court building, the U.S. Botanic Garden, the Capitol Power Plant, and other facilities. The Architects of the Capitol Since 1793 Until 1989 the position of
Architect of the Capitol was filled by Presidential appointment for an indefinite term. Legislation enacted in 1989 provides that the Architect is to be appointed for a term of ten years by the
President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, from a list of three candidates recommended by a congressional commission. Upon confirmation by the Senate, the Architect becomes an
official of the Legislative Branch as an officer and agent of Congress; he is eligible for reappointment after completion of his term. , the 10th Architect of the Capitol, was the first Architect to be
appointed under the procedure established by this legislation. Following Mr. Hantman's retirement on February 4, 2007, , AIA, AOC's Deputy Architect/Chief Operating Officer, in accordance with
P.L. 108-7, is serving as Acting Architect of the Capitol until a new Architect is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. , whose design for the Capitol was selected by President
George Washington after a national architectural competition, is honored as the first Architect of the Capitol. Dr. Thornton's assignment was limited to designing and supervising the
construction of the new Capitol, under the direction of the Commissioners of the Federal District and the President of the United States. However, the role and responsibilities of the Architect
have changed and grown as additional activities have been assigned to the office by Congress. Today, in light of the widespread activities under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol,
the administrative function competes heavily with the architectural and engineering functions of the office. Mr. Alan Hantman, FAIA Stephen T. Ayers