This box: view talk edit Early life and education Warren is the son of Jimmy and Dot. His father was a Baptist minister, his mother a high school librarian. He was raised in , and graduated
from Ukiah High School in 1972. His sister Chaundel is married to Saddleback pastor Tom Holladay. His brother Jim C. Warren died in 2007.[] clarification needed Ukiah, California Warren
received a degree from in Riverside, California; a degree from (1979) in Fort Worth, Texas, and a degree from in Pasadena, California. Bachelor of Arts California Baptist University Master of
Divinity Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary Doctor of Ministry Fuller Theological Seminary [8] Personal Warren has been married to Elizabeth K. Warren (Kay) for 30 years. They have
three adult children (Amy, Josh, and Matthew) and four grandchildren. He considers , and his own father to be among his mentors. Billy Graham Peter Drucker Warren no longer takes a salary
from Saddleback and has repaid all of his salary from the last 25 years back to the church, due to the success of his book sales. He says he now "reverse ", meaning giving away 90% of his
income and living off 10%. tithes [9] Career Warren says he was called to full-time when he was a 19-year-old student at California Baptist University. In November 1973, he and a friend
skipped classes and drove 350 miles to hear preach at the Jack Tar Hotel, in San Francisco. Warren waited afterwards to shake hands with Criswell who focused on Warren stating "I feel led to
and pray for you! ministry W.A. Criswell [10] lay hands on you [10] In April 1980 Warren held Saddleback Church's first public service on at the High School Theater with 200 people in
attendance. Warren's methods led to rapid expansion with the church using nearly 80 different facilities in its 28-year history. Easter Sunday Laguna Hills church growth Saddleback did not
build its first permanent building until it had 10,000 weekly attenders. When the current Lake Forest campus was purchased in the early 1990s, a 2,300-seat plastic tent was used for worship
services for several years, with four services each weekend. In 1995, the current Worship Center was completed with a seating capacity of 3,500. A multi-million dollar children's Ministry Center
and staff office building were completed over the next few years. In June 2008, a $20 million student ministry facility called the "Refinery", was completed housing the "Wildside" middle school
and "HSM" high school ministries, consisting of 1,500 students. Saddleback Church averages nearly 20,000 people in attendance each week and is currently the eighth-largest church in the
United States. [11] Warren has been invited to speak at national and international forums including the , the in , the , the , s , , and s Global Health Summit. He was named one of "America's
Top 25 Leaders in the October 31, 2005, issue of . Warren was named by as one of "15 World Leaders Who Mattered Most in 2004" and one of the "100 Most Influential People in the World"
(2005). In 2006 called him one of "15 People Who Make America Great". United Nations World Economic Forum Davos African Union Council on Foreign Relations Harvard Kennedy School of
Government TED Time U.S. News and World Report [8] TIME magazine [12] Newsweek [13] In August 2008, Warren drew greater national attention by hosting the that featured senators and
at Saddleback Church. Warren said the goal of the forum was to restore civility in our civil discourse. The forum marked McCain and Obama's first joint appearance as the presumptive and
presidential nominees and was broadcast live on national television. During the two-hour event, each candidate took the stage separately for about an hour to respond to Warren s questions
about faith and moral issues including and . Civil Forum on the Presidency John McCain Barack Obama [14] Republican Democratic abortion human rights In December 2008, President-elect
Obama chose Warren to give the invocation at his . The decision angered and advocates and led to criticism of both Obama and Warren. More controversy ensued when it was announced that
Warren would be the keynote speaker at the Annual Commemorative Service on January 19, 2009, the day prior to the inauguration. inauguration ceremony pro-choice LGBT [15] Martin Luther
King, Jr. [16] Ministries Warren and his wife are directors of the following non-profit organizations: Acts of Mercy Equipping the Church Purpose Driven comes from the teaching of Warren,
and came into use as a taught to pastors and other leaders worldwide to help them be more effective in leading their churches. The teaching is embodied in Warren s best-selling book, , first
published in 1995. Over 400,000 pastors and church leaders from around the world have attended a seminar or conference led by Warren and other pastors who seek to be more effective in
fulfilling the Biblical and . refers to these pastors attempts to balance the five "purposes"; worship, fellowship, discipleship, ministry, and evangelism in their churches. Purpose Driven paradigm
Christian The Purpose Driven Church Great Commission Great Commandment [] citation needed Purpose Driven Christian leaders in 162 countries have used materials which stem from this
movement. Warren says his organizations have trained 400,000 pastors worldwide. Some 189,000 church leaders subscribe to , the weekly newsletter.[] citation needed [17] Ministry Toolbox[]
citation needed Others express concern over what is described as the divisive nature of Warren's techniques. writer Suzanne Sataline cited examples of congregations who have split over the
growth strategies and congregations that have expelled members who fought changes. She wrote, "Warren acknowledges that splits occur in congregations that adopt his ideas, though he says
he opposes efforts to expel church members. Wall Street Journal [17] PEACE Plan Main article: PE A CE Plan The P E AC E Plan is an initiative begun by Saddleback Church in Lake Forest,
California. Senior pastor Rick Warren's stated intention in launching the P E A C E (or PEACE) Plan is to involve every Christian and every church in every nation in the task of serving people in
the areas of the greatest global needs. The tag-line is Ordinary people empowered by God making a difference together wherever they are. P E A CE is an acronym for the stated methodology
for achieving the plan: "Promote reconciliation - Equip servant leaders - Assist the poor - Care for the sick - Educate the next generation.'[] citation needed Political and social views Kay and
Rick Warren present , with Laura Bush at his side, with the Intemational Medal of Peace at the Saddleback on Global Health in Washington, D.C. (left of picture) President George W. Bush Civil
Forum Warren has worked to shift the evangelical movement away from an exclusive focus on traditional approaches to social issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, to broader social
action instead. Warren's five-point plan for global action, the , calls for church-led efforts to tackle global poverty and disease, including the spread of , and to support literacy and education
efforts around the world. In February 2006, he signed a controversial statement backing a major initiative to combat , thus breaking with other conservative, high-profile evangelical leaders,
such as, who had opposed such a move. Polls have indicated that most evangelicals are skeptical of theories, especially related to human . This decision by Warren remains one of his most
controversial and criticized moves.[] clarification needed P E A C E Plan HIV/AIDS global warming James Dobson global warming culpability [18] In a conversation with author in magazine,
Warren spoke out against and in favor of . He also said that brutal dictators such as , , and were all , when questioned on whether religion is beneficial to society. Asked about the difference
between himself and founder , Warren claimed that "it's a matter of tone". In 2005, during the controversy, Warren stated that withholding feeding to Schiavo, a woman in a , was "not a right
to die issue". He then called 's decision to remove her feeding tube, "an atrocity worthy of ", and while speculating about Michael's Schiavo's motives, put forward the idea that Schiavo wanted
Terti to die because, if she regained consciousness, she might have "something to say that he didn t want said". atheist Sam Harris Newsweek evolution creationism Mao Stalin Pol Pot atheists
[19] Focus on the Family James Dobson [20] Terri Schiavo persistent vegetative state Michael Schiavo Nazism [21] [22] Warren has stated that is a greater threat to the American family than
gay marriage . He also publicly supported , which amended the state constitution to read, "Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California." After the measure
passed, Warren's Saddleback Church was targeted by protesters. divorce [23] California Proposition 8 [24] [25] [26] Bibliography