Please stay tuned for our 2009 programming calendar Thank you to everyone who attended events on the Detroit Riverfront in ... More Information Along the Riverfront The Detroit riverfront
is rich with history - the Underground Railroad, French fur-traders, Native American roads, English occupation, Prohibition, to name a few. The Detroit River represents the history of North
America in a way that is not duplicated anywhere else. Local communities, major industries, and even the United States owe their development, in part, to the Detroit River and the people who
took advantage of its potential. The History of Detroit is Inseparable from Its River In collaboration with the , the DRFC is proud to present the tour, which highlights more than 40 historic sites
along the 32 mile Detroit River. Motor Cities National Heritage Area Auto & Labor Heritage on the Detroit River Play Your Part The Detroit RiverFront Conservancy is underway with a $140
million capital campaign to build and permanently maintain, operate, secure and program the Detroit International Riverfront. The transformation of Detroit's Riverfront is supported by a
public-private partnership, including federal, state, county and city government, the corporate community, foundations and the community at large. to find out the many ways you can support
the ongoing revitalization of the Riverfront. Click here Newletter Sign Up Want to keep up with the latest happenings on the Detroit International Riverfront? Send your contact information to
to start receiving the Detroit RiverFront Conservancy's quarterly newsletter: Riverfront Views. info@detroitriverfront.org Buy a Brick and Membership There's still time to be a part of the
Riverfront transformation. When you buy a Detroit RiverFront Conservancy commemorative brick or paver, you become part of the riverfront's history ... and its future. to play your part and
purchase a brick or paver. Click here FAQs Q. What is the status of the Detroit riverfront revitalization? In June 2007, the Conservancy announced the completion and opening of more than 75
percent of the East Riverfront, which in total is 3 &fraci 2; miles of riverfront from Joe Louis Arena to Gabriel Richard Park, just east of the Belle Isle Bridge. Close to 3 miles of the East
Riverfront is complete, including:A. 1 &fraci2; miles of RiverWalk from Joe Louis to Rivard St. 1 &fraci4; miles of RiverWalk from Stroh's RiverPlace to Mt. Elliot Park Rivard Plaza and Pavilion
(Home of the River Carousel) Gabriel Richard Park Plaza and Pavilion