General Motors{] Oklahoma City Truck Plant Selects JAX Lubricants as Sole Supplier MENOMONEE FALLS (October 22, 2001) 0 BEHNKE LUBRICANTS INC/JAX, a leader in high-technology
industrial, synthetic and food grade lubricants, recently announced that it has been selected by the General Motors Truck and Sport Utility Vehicle Plant in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma as the
plant0ls sole supplier of lubricating oils and greases. This three-year contract is valued at approximately $500,000. CiThis agreement builds upon JAX strength in automotive assembly plants,
and offers our company the outstanding opportunity to work with one of the best companies in America, said Eric Peter, president of Behnke Lubricants Inc/JAX. Working with the GM Truck
and SUV plant will give us a chance to showcase our vast array of lubricant products and services, and will help GM fulfill every aspect of their total plant lubrication needs. GMCs Oklahoma
City plant has become home to its leading line of sports utility vehicles following a retooling, which was completed during the summer of 2001. Featured at this facility are GMCIs new line of
SUVs, the Chevy Trailblazer and GMC Envoy. This relationship will take approximately 15,000 gallons of JAX premium lubricating oils and greases to Oklahoma City. The primary JAX products
that will be used include: JAX Magna-Kote 1020, Conveyor Guard, Magna-Kote 990 Synthetic Oven Chain Oil, VHC Hydraulic Fluids, VHC Gear Oils, Magna-Plate 1000 Grease, and Magna-Plate
1100 Corrosion Control Grease. These products will be used in the facility for conveyor, high-tech robots, assembly equipment, gearboxes, bearings and automatic lubrication systems. Behnke
Lubricants Inc/JAX, based in Menomonee Falls, WI, is a manufacturer of high technology industrial, synthetic and food grade lubricants. Founded in 1955, JAX produces conventional and
extreme performance synthetic lubricants for industrial, manufacturing, transportation, construction, food processing and numerous other industry segments. JAX lubrication products are
distributed worldwide. About JAX For information about JAX products, consumers can call toll-free 1-800-782-8850, or email requests to EDITORCIS NOTE: To obtain product photography, or to
schedule an interview with Eric J. Peter, president of Behnke Lubricants Inc/JAX please contact Beth Crivello at (414) 291-0912, or . info@jax.com