MISSION [Return to Top] As the intellectual and leadership center of the Air Force, Air University provides dynamic comprehensive education to prepare graduates to develop, employ,
command, research and champion air, space, and cyberspace power at all levels. Air University's mission is to provide the full spectrum of Air Force education, from pre-commissioning to all
levels of professional military education, including degree granting and professional continuing education for officers, enlisted and civilian personnel throughout their careers. The university's
Professional Military Education programs educate airmen on the capabilities of air and space power and its role in national security. These programs focus on the knowledge and abilities needed
to develop, employ, command, and support air, space, and cyberspace power at all levels. Specialized Professional Continuing Education programs provide scientific, technological, managerial,
and other professional expertise to meet the needs of the Air Force. Air University conducts research in air, space, and cyberspace power, education, leadership, and management. The
university also provides citizenship programs and contributes to the development and testing of Air Force doctrine, concepts and strategy. HISTORY [Return to Top] The Wright Brothers
established the first U.S. civilian flying school in Montgomery in 1910. By the 1920s, Montgomery became an important link in the growing system of aerial mail service. It was in the early
1930s when the Army Air Corps Tactical School moved to Maxwell and Montgomery became the country's intellectual center for airpower education. Air University, established in 1946,
continues the proud tradition of educating tomorrow's planners and leaders, in air and space power for the Air Force, other branches of the U.S. Armed Forces, federal government civilians and
many international organizations. Today, AU has a reach worldwide affecting the careers of every Air Force member. Learn more about Air University's History PERSONNEL AND RESOURCES
[Retum to Top] The university's primary operating locations are concentrated on three main installations. Most AU programs are at Maxwell AFB in northwest Montgomery, Ala.; some are
across town at Maxwell's Gunter Annex; and one is located at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Although AU draws students from throughout the Department of Defense and from the military forces
of other nations, its mission is more easily described in terms of the two main groups it's primarily organized to serve: U.S. Air Force commissioned officers and enlisted members.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE [Return to Top] Air University institutions at Maxwell include Air War College; Air Command and Staff College; Squadron Officer College; College of Aerospace
Doctrine, Research and Education; Ira C. Eaker College for Professional Development; School for Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools; Community
College of the Air Force; and several other support organizations. AU also supports the Civil Air Patrol. Additionally, at Gunter Annex, AU manages the College for Enlisted Professional Military
Education, which includes the Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy and the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning. Support for the AU organizations on
Maxwell/Gunter is provided by 42nd Air Base Wing, the host organization. Another important part of AU is the Air Force Institute of Technology located at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio,
@ PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION [Return to Top] College for Enlisted Professional Military Education The College for Enlisted Professional Military Education at Gunter is responsible for
the instructional programs and faculty development for all Air Force Enlisted Professional Military Education Programs. This indudes the Airman Leadership Schools, Noncommissioned Officer
Academies and the Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy. U.S. Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy The Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy
graduates more than 1,800 chief master sergeant selects, senior master sergeants, selected master sergeants, and sister service and international senior NCOs annually. Noncommissioned
Officer Academies The NCO Academies provide selected noncommissioned officers quality professional military education to more efficiently and effectively develop and fulfill their
responsibilities in the worlds best air and space fighting force. The objective is for the student to gain an understanding of their positions in the military structure and the need to develop the
skills necessary for effectiveness in those supervisory positions. Squadron Officer College The Squadron Officer College is designed to educate company grade officers on the basic concepts of
modern-day air and space warfare and essentials of military leadership. Commissioned as an AU college in February 2000, SOC is composed of two educational schools: the Air and Space Basic
Course and Squadron Officer School. Air and Space Basic Course ASBC is a six-week program organized to teach second lieutenants the essential concepts of how the Air Force prosecutes
aerial wars. A new addition to the program is a five-day combined operations period with the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy. This integrated curriculum includes a focus on hands-on
leadership skills, improved communication abilities and a better appreciation of both officer and enlisted force development issues. Squadron Officer School Squadron Officer School is
designed to teach the essence of military leadership, air and space doctrine, international security issues, and communication skills. Students are not only exposed to these new concepts, they
are required to apply these lessons in a variety of complex experiential learning exercises. Air Command and Staff College Air Command and Staff College is the Air Force's intermediate
professional military education school, prepares field grade officers of all services (primarily majors and major selects), international officers and U.S. civilians to assume positions of higher
responsibility within the military and other government arenas. Geared toward teaching the skills necessary to conduct air and space operations in support of a joint campaign, ACSC focuses on
shaping and molding tomorrow's leaders and commanders. Air War College Air War College is the senior school in the Air Force PME system. It educates selected senior officers to lead at the
strategic level in the employment of air and space forces. The curriculum focuses on coalition warfighting and national security issues, with emphasis on the effective employment of aerospace
forces in joint and combined combat operations. Additionally, AWC provides the only open enrollment nonresident senior PME program in the Department of Defense. OFFICER PRODUCTION
PROGRAMS [Return to Top] Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools provides coordinated leadership and policy direction for the Air
Force's officer recruiting training and commissioning programs at Officer Training School and at Air Force ROTC detachments. AFOATS also directs the Air Force's high school citizenship training
program - Air Force Junior ROTC. Reserve Officer Training Corps Air Force ROTC is the largest source of commissioned officers for the Air Force. The organization's mission is to produce Air
Force leaders and to build better citizens for America. Officer Training School Officer Training School is the "flexible partner" of Air Force commissioning programs. OTS provides two
officer-training programs: Basic Officer Training and Commissioned Officer Training. ACADEMIC EDUCATION [Retum to Top] Community College of the Air Force The Community College of the
Air Force is the only degree-granting institution of higher learning in the world dedicated exclusively to enlisted people. CCAF offers unique opportunities for motivated, career-oriented active
duty, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve airmen and NCOs to earn a job-related, two-year undergraduate associate in applied science degree. CCAF also facilitates selected professional
certification and recognition for airmen. Air Force Institute of Technology The Air Force Institute of Technology supports the Air Force and national defense through responsive degree-granting
graduate and professional continuing education, research and consulting services to AF and DOD agencies. Graduate-level work offers carefully selected officers, AF civilians, and intemational
officers the broad educational experience necessary for understanding the role of technology in national defense and in analyzing and solving defense-related problems. PROFESSIONAL
CONTINUING EDUCATION [Return to Top] College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education The College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education advances theory and application
of air and space power through professional continuing education, research and wargaming. Ira C. Eaker College for Professional Development The Ira C. Eaker College for Professional
Development provides world-class professional continuing education and technical training to Air Force and other Department of Defense personnel and international officers. It offers resident
and distance-learning/exportable courses for chaplains; chaplain assistants; wing, group and on-scene commanders; military and civilian personnel and manpower managers; comptrollers,
family support center personnel; judge advocates; paralegals; first sergeants; and historians. International Officer School International Officer School supports professional military education
by conducting five classes of six weeks duration each year to enhance international officers understanding of the United States and to prepare them to attend Air War College, Air Command
and Staff College or Squadron Officer College. School of Advanced Air and Space Studies The School of Advanced Air and Space Studies produces tomorrow's senior military leaders who are
experts in the employment of air and space forces. SAASS is an 11-month, follow-on school for selected graduates of intermediate-level DOD PME schools. SAASS educates strategists in the art
and science of air and space warfare to enhance the Air Force's capacity to defend the United States through the control and exploitation of air and space. CITIZENSHIP EDUCATION [Return to
Top] Civil Air Patrol The Civil Air Patrol has its national headquarters at Maxwell. Chartered by Congress as the official auxiliary of the Air Force, it is a private, nonprofit organization with three
missions: emergency service, air and space education and conducting a cadet program. Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools also
administers the Air Force Junior ROTC program. This program provides citizenship training and an air and space science program for high school youth. OTHER AIR UNIVERSITY
ORGANIZATIONS [Return to Top] Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning is the Air Force focal point for implementation of
advanced distributed learning policy and emerging ADL technology; the Executive Agent for the Air Force Extension Course Program, and the Executive Technology Network (ATN). Academic
Support Services The Air University resident and distance education programs receive academic support from such organization as AU Registrar, AU Library, AU Press, AU Television, Air Force
Enlisted Heritage Research Institute and AU Bookstore. Air University Library The premier library in the Department of Defense, the AU Library houses especially strong collections in the fields
of warfighting, aeronautics, Air Force and DOD operations, military sciences, international relations, education, leadership and management. Bearing the name of Gen. Muir S. Fairchild, the
founder and first commander of AU, the library serves as the focal point of faculty and student research, holding more than 2.9 million items. Air University Television Operating under the
chief of information technology, Air University Television - a video-production facility for DOD and Air Force projects - provides dedicated television services to the university's professional
military education and professional continuing education courses. About Air University