O_O Hefty (up to 12 kilograms), with a broad head, jutting lower jaw and conspicuous scales, the inconnu is a whitefish that thrives in the shallow, muddy waters of the Mackenzie Delta.
Dubbed the "poisson inconnu (unknown fish) by explorer Alexander Mackenzie's voyageurs in the 19th century, the game fish is also known as the "connie,", "coney" or "sheefish." Its range
includes the Arctic and sub-arctic regions of northwestern North America and Siberia. In coastal areas, the inconnu spends part of its life at sea, ascending freshwater streams to spawn, but in
inland lakes (such as Great Slave Lake in the Northwest Territories) it remains in freshwater throughout its life. Inconnu have relatively long lifespans, maturing as late as 10 years of age;
individual fish may spawn only once every 2 to 4 years.Inconnu: The "Unknown" Fish By using an ingenious series of surface structures, known as "push-ups," muskrats can survive the frigid
waters and thick ice of the Mackenzie Delta's winter waterways. When the first thin ice of autumn begins to form over lakes and channels, the muskrat systematically chews a chain of plunge
holes, about 10 metres apart along a straight line which can extend up to 90 metres from its main lodge. Over each hole, it builds a dome of plant material and mud, just big enough for one
animal. Beneath the ice, the muskrat paddles from push-up to push-up, digging up roots and underground stems and carrying them to the surface to dine in the comfort of a snow-covered,
insulated dome. Survival Shelters: Prolific as they may be, muskrats seldom live beyond 2 years of age. On land, they are heavily preyed upon by foxes, wolves, lynx, martens and, bears. In
water, mink are a particular threat, pursuing their muskrat prey into lodges, burrow systems and plunge holes. "Rating" for furs and meat has long been part of the traditional lifestyle of
northem First Nations, and muskrat trapping on the Mackenzie Delta has been a feature of the Delta economy since the 19th century.Fair Game: High above the normal treeline, narrow
ribbons of spruce and tamarack continue to rim the larger channels of the Mackenzie Delta, tapering through ponds and lakes to a low-growing cover of cotton-grass sedges and dwarf willows.
Within these Arctic and sub-Artic oases of food and shelter, at least 54 species of mammals thrive. They include: More Mackenzie Delta Mammals - Black bears are abundant in the Mackenzie
valley and Delta. The outer islands of the northern Mackenzie Delta - Kendall, Richard, Pelly - support a significant population of barren-ground grizzly bears. - Both species of the deer family
are prevalent throughout the Delta. The moose prefer the willow-covered banks of ponds and channels, while vast herds of caribou summer on the barren tundra and winter in the forested
transitional zone. - While the red fox, with its distinctive white-tipped tail, favours habitat south of the Arctic tundra, its range extends north to the land of the white Arctic fox. The more
diminutive Arctic fox feeds primarily on lemmings, but also trails polar bears in search of fresh seal leftovers. Red foxes dine on the Delta's abundant supply of muskrats and rabbits and
occasionally, on Arctic foxesCIBlack Bears and Grizzly Bears CMoose and Caribou OiRed Fox and Arctic Fox - Following the forest north along the Mackenzie, the adaptive boreal rabbit makes
good use of its long, four-toed feet and its ability to change its fur colour from the grey-brown of summer to the pure white of winter. - A sub-species of the gray wolf, the roaming Arctic wolf
uses its keen sense of sight, smell and hearing to prey on lemmings, hares musk-oxen and caribou. -Along the Arctic coast, shaggy, prehistoric-looking musk-oxen forage for grasses, willow
leaves and Arctic flowers. Weighing up to 350 kilograms, the long-haired wooly oxen with their downward-curving horns excrete musky-smelling urine. - Each spring, a distinct Mackenzie Delta
stock of beluga whales leaves its wintering grounds in the Bering Sea to moult in the estuarine waterways of the Delta. After rubbing themselves on the muddy bottom, they allow the warm
freshwater currents to rinse away old layers of thick skin.Snowshoe Hare DArctic Wolf OMusk-Ox OBeluga Whale Visitors to Tuktoyaktuk, at the mouth of the East Channel of the
Mackenzie Delta, can toboggan on some of the largest pingos in the Wester Arctic. The volcano-shaped ice-core mountains form a backdrop to the northern community, where two of the
highest hills have been used as landmarks by the local Inuvialuit for centuries.Tuktoyaktuk Landmarks Thrusting high above the flat, treeless plain of the Arctic tundra, cone-shaped ice hills
known as "pingos" appear in sharp contrast to the monotony of the far northem landscape. Volcano-like in appearance, but with a core that is frozen rather than molten, pingos are a
consequence of underlying permafrost. About 1500 icy boils rise from the Mackenzie Delta, representing the largest concentration of pingos in the world.Pingo Pinnacles The formation of a
pingo begins when standing water in a low-lying area gradually expands into a lake: The lake water, which cannot permeate the permafrost, spills out over its banks and gradually drains dry.
Permafrost closes in on the dried lake bed, freezing the sediments in the centre. An isolated frozen mound begins to form, gradually rising up above the tundra. A fissure opens at the summit of
the frozen mound, exposing the ice core and allowing part of it to melt. A new lake forms high up in the crater of the icy hill. 1