Updated June 4, 2003, 5:32 p.m. ET Martha Stewart indicted on nine counts stemming from insider-trading scandal Stewart arrives at the federal courthouse in Manhattan Li Martha Stewart,
the exemplar of "good things who built an empire as an icon of tasteful living, was indicted Wednesday on securities fraud and obstruction of justice charges that could result in a prison
term.NEW YORK (AP) The indictment also charged Stewart with conspiracy and making false statements and her stockbroker, Peter Bacanovic, with perjury and obstruction of justice. Stewart
and Bacanovic pleaded innocent before a federal judge to all charges. "This criminal case is about lying -- lying to the FBI, lying to the SEC and investors," U.S. Attorney James Comey said.
"That is conduct that will not be tolerated. Martha Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is, but what she did." Stewart, 61, has denied wrongdoing in the ImClone stock sale. She
claimed to have had an arrangement with her broker for the automatic sale of the stock when it dropped to a certain price. Stewart, wearing a pale khaki-colored trenchcoat and carrying an
off-white umbrella, arrived at the federal courthouse in Manhattan just before noon, breezing past a crowd of reporters and camera crews without a word. The scandal surrounds Stewart's sale
of 4,000 shares of biotech drug maker ImClone Systems Inc. on Dec. 27, 2001 -- the day before the government issued a disappointing report on an ImClone drug, sending the company's
stock price tumbling. In a statement, Stewart attorney Robert Morvillo said the home-decorating maven had done nothing wrong and asked why the government would file the charges after a
year and a half of investigation. "Is it for publicity purposes because Martha Stewart is a celebrity?" he said. "Is it because she is 2 woman who has successfully competed in a man's business
world by virtue of her talent, hard work and demanding standards?" If convicted of all counts, Stewart faces up to 30 years in prison and $2 million in fines, although the sentence would likely
be much less under federal guidelines. In a related action, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil suit in Manhattan seeking to bar Stewart from being in charge of any public
company. The SEC suit also asks the court to order Stewart and Bacanovic to pay more than $45,000 total -- the losses the government says Stewart avoided by selling ImClone in advance of
the disappointing news. The criminal indictment says Stewart unloaded her shares of ImClone based on illegal inside knowledge that the family of ImClone founder Samuel Waksal was
planning to sell its shares ahead of the government news. Stewart went so far as to delete a computer log of a phone message in which Bacanovic told her he thought ImClone was "going to
start trading downward," according to the indictment. The government also said Bacanovic altered his personal notes about Stewart's portfolio after he learned the government was
investigating her, trying to create the impression he and Stewart had a prior agreement to sell ImClone if it fell below $60 a share. The charges spell not just serious legal headaches for
Stewart, but a crisis for her company, which has struggled with a public relations nightmare that has grown since she became involved in the stock scandal a year ago. A fascinated public has
watched Stewart try to keep her highly profitable public persona intact, doling out advice on decorating or preparing a tasty dinner on a television program, while news headlines have focused
on the criminal cases of close friends or her legal troubles. The scandals had affected earnings at her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, which have been slumping. Revenue in the
first quarter of the year dropped 15 percent from the same period a year earlier. Stewart told The New Yorker magazine in January she has lost about $400 million because of the company's,
declining value, legal fees and lost business opportunities. And shares of her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, have fallen from $19 to just over $9. She is a friend of ImClone
founder Samuel Waksal, who is to be sentenced next week after pleading guilty to six counts in the insider-trading scandal. Waksal could get to six to seven years in prison. His defense team is
seeking a lighter sentence, and prosecutors are seeking a heavier one -- claiming Waksal cheated ImClone shareholders as far back as 1986. Waksal has admitted he tipped off his daughter
Aliza to sell ImClone stock before it plummeted on the bad news. But he has not implicated Stewart, and his plea was not part of an agreement to cooperate with prosecutors. Stewart's sale of
the 4,000 shares came one day before the Food and Drug Administration announced it would not review ImClone's application for approval of Erbitux, which the company had touted as a
promising cancer drug. ImClone's stock subsequently plunged. Stewart has maintained that she had a standing order with her Merrill Lynch broker, Bacanovic, to sell the shares if the stock fell
below $60. Just this week, a new study conducted in Europe, found Erbitux worked just as well as a cancer treatment as a disputed study conducted earlier, and sponsored by ImClone, said it
did. Analysts have said an indictment could seriously damage Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia -- a company for which Stewart herself is CEO, chief stockholder, inspiration and best-known
spokeswoman. The company produces Martha Stewart Living and Martha Stewart Weddings magazines, a newspaper column, a television show and the popular Martha Stewart Everyday line
of home products, like towels and sheets. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia reported sales of $295 million and a staff of 580 last year. It includes publishing, television, merchandising,
Internet commerce and direct mail