Slideshow: Village Life on the Northern Great Plains by Liz Olson For centuries beginning around 1600, Native Americans settled along the wooded and rich-soil banks of Northern Plains rivers.
In the United States the Plains include parts of North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Texas. For the most part, the tribes
of the Northern Great Plains were agricultural and trade-based societies. Upon European contact in the 18 and 19 centuries, many villages became major trading posts, bringing prosperity but
transforming their culture forever.thth Prev Next Nomadic dwellings Teepees as seen above were a typical dwelling of many Native Americans living on the Great Plains. They were usually
made by arranging poles into a cone-shape frame, with an opening at the top to release smoke from fires that burned within the teepee, and then wrapping animal skins over the frame for
insulation. Teepees were especially good for nomadic tribes or hunting parties because they were easily transported from one location to another, and provided protection from the weather.
Because of the adaptability of the teepee to prairie life, Gen. Henry Sibley used it as a model for the tent that bears his name.Fun Fact: Photo source:Library of Congress Earth lodge As
shown in the image above, the earth lodge of the Northem Plain Indians was a circular, dome-shaped house, usually made of posts and beams that were covered with branches, grass, and
earth. Like a teepee, an earth lodge usually had an opening in the center of the roof for smoke and an earth floor. Each earth lodge was home to an extended family of 10 to 30 people. Each
earth lodge stored surplus food, such as com and sunflower seeds, in a bell-shaped hole called a cache pit.Fun Fact: Photo source:Library of Congress Male duties In many tribes of Norther
Plains Indians, the primary occupations of men included raiding and huntingboth difficult and dangerous tasks. In times of conflict, men went to war and a war chief, like the Hidatsa chief
Lean Wolf pictured above, assumed leadership of the village. In addition to hunting, raiding, and fighting, men also spent time seeking spiritual knowledge.Fun Fact: Photo source: Library of
Congress Women's duties Women who lived in Native American tribes on the Great Plains were responsible for performing domestic tasks, such as growing and preparing food, maintaining the
home, and looking after children. Family earth lodges and teepees were usually owned by women of the tribe or a woman's family. Upon marriage, men moved in with the woman's family. In
addition, all game hunted and killed by men became the property of women. Young girls often played house with miniature teepees that they made of decorated hide given to them as
presents.Fun Fact: Photo source:Library of Congress Battle Some tribes of the Great Plains, such as the Sioux and Blackfoot, were more warlike than others, and often engaged in battle

often. The primary weapon used by Plains Indians was the bow and arrow as pictured above, held by a Sioux male. Men also used guns, clubs, tomahawks, lances, shields, and knives in battle,
When peace was reached with an enemy, some Native Americans ceremonially buried a tomahawk. The expression, "burying the hatchet," was derived from this custom.Fun Fact: Photo
source:National Archives (111-SC-202199) Horses The introduction of horses to Native American people on the Great Plains had a huge impact on their culture, improving their ability to hunt,
fight, and travel. Horses were introduced to the Plains people by the Spanish in the 18th century. Acquiring horses allowed Native Americans greater mobilityformer agriculture-based tribes of
the river valleys became nomadic hunters, creating a new life on the Plains. Plains people bred and traded horses with other Indian Nations.Fun Fact: Hunting buffalo The buffalo, as pictured
above, was the main source of livelihood for Native Americans living on the Great Plains, supplying almost everything they needed to survive, including food, clothing, housing, and tools.
Hunting parties were chosen and planned by a respected hunter. For an individual male and his clan, prowess in both battle and hunt led to status in the village. Native Americans respected and
honored the buffalo, praising its spirit before every hunt with a ritual dance. Native Americans considered the buffalo's tongue to be the best part of the meat.Fun Fact: Ceremonial dance
Northern Plains Indians held ceremonial dances as a celebration, most often for the cure of disease, success in a hunt or battle, and good fortune in a family or tribe. An example of a Cheyenne
powwow dance in Montana is pictured above. Probably the most well-known ceremonial dance, the powwow, is an Anglicized word of the Algonquian term "pau-wau," meaning a gathering of
medicine men or spiritual leaders.Fun Fact: Photo source:Library of Congress Agriculture Agriculture was the economic foundation for some Native American Plains people, such as the Hidatsa
and Mandan tribes. Usually controlled by women and passed down through the women's family, the size of the family plot was determined by the number of women able to work the land.
Traditional crops included corn, squash, pumpkin, beans, and sunflowers. Some sunflower plants can grow as tall as eight feet.Fun Fact: Trade For centuries, trade was 2 major part of the
livelihood for Native Americans living on the Great Plains. The Missouri River provided a trade transportation route for Native Americans, European, and American trappers and traders.
Agriculture-based tribes traded surplus food to nomadic tribes in exchange for goods, such as animal hides, feathers, and meat. The map above shows the prehistoric trade route between tribes
of the Northern Plains. The first contact between Northern Plains Indians and Europeans was European commodities, not the Europeans themselves, through a network of trade.Fun Fact:

Photo source:Library of Congress