Joint Joint 1. To unite by a or joints; to together; to so as to together; as, to . (Pope)joint fit prepare fit joint boards Pierced through the of jointed . yielding planks wood 2. To join; to
connect; to unite; to combine. (Shak)Jointing their gainst Caesar. force 3. To with a or joints; to . (Ray) provide joint articulate The are jointed together for . fingers motion 4. To the joints;
of; to at the or joints; to disjoint; to up into , as . Quartering, , seething, and roasting. separate divide joint cut joints meat He the . joints neck jointing (Holland) Origin: Jointed; . jointing 1
The or part where two things or are joined or united; the of two or more or even admitting of a close-fitting or junction; as, a between two of timber; a in a . place parts union smooth surfaces
junction joint pieces joint pipe 2. A joining of two things or so as to of motion; an , whether or not; a hinge; as, the joint; a or of a stem; a . See . (Shak) (Milton) parts admit articulation
movable knee node joint ball and Socket Joint articulation A now, with of , Must glove this . scaly gauntlet joints steel hand To thee by . tear jointjoint 3. The part or between two , , , or
articulations; as, a of cane or of a stem; a of the . space included joints knots nodes joint grass joint leg 5. (Science: geology) a of , or , of a to the . plane fracture divisional plane rock
transverse stratification 6. The between the of two joined and together, as by of , , etc.; as, a thin . space adjacent surfaces bodies held means cement mortar joint 7. The whereby the of in a
are secured together. Coursing , the chair that the of abutting . , a for shafting. See . , a having leaves; a . splice, a reenforce at a, to the in their true . . A consisting of jointed parts; a. A for
supporting the of a at a joint; a chair. Out of , out of place; dislocated, as when the of a from its socket; hence, not working well together; disordered. means meeting surfaces pieces structure
joint supports ends rails Joint coupling universal joint coupling universal Joint hinge hinge long strap hinge Jointjoint sustain parts relation Joint stool stool folding stool block end piece jointjoint
head bone slips The is out of . time joint Origin: . , . Joindre, p. P. . See . by which or are joined together. (anatomy) the of between two or of a (especially if the allows ).The of between two
There are many different of including , and , , and slightly . f Joint fr Joint join Junction parts objects point connection bones elements skeleton articulation motion area contact bones types
joint hinge ball socket universal sliding movable Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page This page was last modified 21:16, 3

October 2005. This page has been accessed 2,672 times. | |