Free High Res Grungy Paper Textures Posted inDecember 17, 2007| Freebies | After my first texture release, some of you mentioned you might find some paper textures useful, so I guess
you could say that this is a requested freebie. Not much else to say other than keep the requests coming. Download the High Res images from Flickr by clicking on the pics. The full size images
are 2005 X 3000 px :) Download all 4 ina ZIP (17.9 MB) Includes: - JPEG ()4 Tags: , , , , , Freebies Grunge Hi-Res Old Paper Textures This entry was posted on Monday, December 17th,
2007 at 3:23 pm and is filed under . You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from your own site. Freebies RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback Did you like this
post? Digging and sharing is a great way to say thanks! 154 Responses to Free High Res Grungy Paper Textures Awesome - and this gives me an idea! I'll get to work on using this right
away! Thanks Bitt this is right up my alley of stuff to use in my personal style. i would really like to download them, but my computer has flickr blocked. could you post a .2ip file. thanx a
bunch. I'l put all 4 in a zip. Check back in an hour or so :) ~Bitt bruce bolin Dec 17, 07 at 11:48 pm wow. Bitt, you just won the Hero of the Day award. I can definately find a use for
these! Esben Thomsen Dec 18, 07 at 4:43 am Finally Bitt is back.. I seriously miss your good old articles about illustrator and i've watched in horror when PS guys & girls screams for psds,
and you followed their wink. There are so many blogs about PS, but only one or two about vector - keep it up Bitt :-) Brilliant! These are wonderful and will certainly be used. Thanks Bitt!
Variado UNO: Texturas y Esqueletos CSS  Xybemeticos Dec 18, 07 at 2:55 pm [...] Un peque 0 revuelto de recursos que seguro nos vendr como anillo al dedo en alg n momento,
Concretamente sobre dos cosas, la primera una peque a raci n de texturas desde bittbox, 4 en total a resoluci n de 2005x3000 imitando diferentes tipos de papeles. Las im genes est n alojadas
en Flickr, entraremos, picaremos en la lupa con el m s y escogeremos que tama o queremos descargar. [Enlace: Free High Res Grungy Paper Textures] [...] can i use one of them for a cd
cover? its for my brother in law's band, it'll be their first demo album. thx :) Thanx for these i have a site to build over xmax and this is just the resource i have been looking for. Keep up the
great work. Love this site This site is fantastic, quality resources and all very useful. THANKS HEAPS!!! Sir Pavlow Dec 19, 07 at 10:01 pm Thanks For Your publish. very useful These are
fantastic and just what I was after. Thanks a million! Nice Job Bittbox. Any clues as to how you made them, or are they really as old as they look? Epic Blogger  Free High Res Grungy Paper
Textures Dec 27, 07 at 5:20 pm [...] After my first texture release, some of you mentioned you might find some paper] textures useful, so I guess you could say that this is a requested
freebie. Not much else to say other than keep the requests coming. Download the High Res images from Flickr by clicking on the pics. The full size images are 2005 X 3000 px Get them here at
Bittbox.com [...] Sweet! Thanks for providing such awesome resources! All the best, JB toby Jan 7, 08 at 5:51 am thanks for them. they work nicely. Texturas de Papel | ARTEgami Jan 9, 08
at 2:30 am [...] Bittbox comparte con nosotros 4 texturas de papel de muy alta resoluci n. El tama o de las im genes es de 2005x3000 p xeles, as se evita que se sufra de alg n tipo de
percance cuando se deseen utilizar para alg n trabajo de dise o gr fico. Espero que les gusten.Cualquier cosa, el que tiene un scanner a mano siempre puede conseguir hacer su propia textura
[1 u guys do amazing work... Provide lot of ideas and inspiration to designers... :) Thanks for sharing... PSDTuts - Photoshop Tutorials and Links - Create a Constructivist Inspired Poster Feb
21, 08 at 10:55 pm [...] We need to gather the assets for this tutorial. We'll need a constructivist typeface. Fortunately there is one available for free: Kremlin. Make sure you install this as
we'll need it later on in this tut. Here are links to the graphics for this tutorial: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4. After selecting the graphics we need to download and then prep them. Change the colors to
grayscale and cut the backgrounds out (use whatever method you prefer to get rid of the background). There is one more image for this tutorial. Its some grunge paper from Bittbox. Its
available in a free download pack at this link: Free High Res Grungy Paper Textures. [...]