Confessions from a patterns & fabric addict Archive for September, 2007 Out of my sewing slump? September 26, 2007 Nah, I still haven't cleaned up my sewing attic. I've been too busy
with freelance contracts on the side, that occupied my evenings and my weekends of the last 2 months. But now that Ive started my sewing lessons (more on that later), I think I'll have to
take some time to clean up my attic! I need to put the pattems back into their envelopes, WITH their instructions. I need to take a look at my pattern inventory to see what I could make in the
coming months. I'm now 12 kilos lighter than in June, I've dropped 2 full dress sizes and that opens up a whole new range of sewing opportunities! I have pattems in many sizes, so now is the
time to try them... before they get too big. As I said, I have started with my sewing classes, every Monday. Of course, the classes are aimed at beginners, but the teacher said that sewists of
all levels are welcomed and I see these classes as the perfect place to learn how to make a jacket or vest that fits, or how to put an invisible zipper properly (I still cant do that... shame on
me!), or in my particular case, how to adapt existing garments to my everchanging weight... Last Monday, we learned how to make a simple pincushion... erm, Im a bit further than that, but
anyway, I went with the flow and made a nice pincushion I needed one anyway! Perhaps next week I'll skip the baby pants lesson and start straight away with the winter jacket I'd like to
make. I'll have a look at the fabric in my stash during the weekend and dig in the mess in my attic for the pattern I'm looking for.. I have signed up for classes! September 5, 2007 Everybody
looked at me in utter shock when I mentioned that I signed up for sewing classes at one of my local neighborhood centers. "Sewing classes? Why? You can make a wedding dress, you dont
need classes! Well, I still think I need classes. Because there are so many techniques that I dont master yet, and its never too late to learn them. Plus, improving what you already know is
always good. And its a nice way to getting to know people who love sewing as much as I do! Classes start at the end of September, I cant wait! You are currently browsing the blog archives
for September, 2007. Blue Lilly's Sewing Page a