Visit some of these beautiful gardens >> _ Recreational opportunities abound in the Triangle. Enjoy a day at the lake, visit the zoo or explore Farmers Markets!. Recreation Have fun in NC>>
 Discover a state with something for everyone. Museums, parks, farms, State buildings, science and much, much more! Culture More details>> The Triangle area continually receives,
accolades for being a top location to live, visit and do business. MSNBC named Raleigh, North Carolina as the , and the A & E channel recently recognized Chapel Hill as the #2 city in their
Raleigh was just named by Forbes.com as the and by as the .Previous kudos have included magazine's selection of the Triangle as the magazine's rating of the Triangle as #1 for and 's nod as
theMoving to Fearrington? #1 Best Place To Live in the United States"Top Ten Cities to Have it All."Best Place for Business & Careers,Kiplinger's#2 Best City in the NationMoney"#1 Best Place
to Live in America,"FortuneThe Best Cities For Knowledge Workers,"Sports Illustrated"number one college town in the United States". Fearrington residents have access to a myriad of
churches, synagogues and other places of worship in the area, including Anglican Catholic, Baptist, Bible, Roman Catholic, Charismatic, Christian Science, Church of Christ, Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter Day Saints, Episcopal, Greek Orthodox, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutheran, Methodist, Presbyterian, Seventh-Day Adventist, and Unitarian Schools. Children in the Fearrington
community attend as well as local parochial and private schools, which include (P-12), (P-8), (P-12), the (P-6), the (P-5), and the (P-8).Religious Services Schools Chatham County Public
Schools, Durham Academy St. Thomas Moore School Carolina Friends School Montessori School Community Independent School Emerson Waldorf School The Triangle cities offer a total of
sixteen, two and four year colleges/universities (including the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Duke University and North Carolina State University), and two technical community
colleges. Located at two of the major universities, both UNC Hospitals and Duke University Medical Center have top-notch medical facilities and are easily accessible from any part of the
Triangle. UNC Chapel Hill offers residents of the area many continuing education opportunities through their , and their weekend seminars.Universities Lifelong Learning Program Adventures in
Ideas The Triangle area is home to some of the finest healthcare facilities in the country. The region's reputation for cutting edge medical technology is due, in part, to the proximity of major
universities specializing in medical education. Nearby facilities include , , and all less than 30 miles from Fearrington Village.Medical Facilities UNC Hospitals Rex Hospital Duke University
Medical Center Wake Medical, This area is a major hub for travel due to many nearby colleges and universities, business leaders and medical facilities. Fearrington is convenient to both and
Ground transportation is made convenient by local 3 Amtrak stations as well as several major interstates that make both the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Atlantic Coast less than 4 hours
drive away.Transportation