Weapon Cleaning Ultrasonics The Ultimate Weapon Cleaning Systems Clean, condition and lubricate everything from handguns to tactical weapons effectively, efficiently, economically... in
minutes & without manual labor. Ultrasonic cleaning technology is the most progressive method available for cleaning hand guns, shot guns and tactical weapons. It provides law enforcement
with a uniform standard of cleanliness. It effectively cleans the "impossible to reach by hand" areas with minimal assembly. simply field strip your weapon and place it in the ultrasonic tank
filled with . The concentrated solution, when used in the ultrasonic, is powerful enough to remove crud, light rust, loose lead, powder buildup and copper residue. After cleaning,
ultrasonically condition and lubricate with . This displaces all traces of water and leaves the weapon with a uniform, dry lubrication. To use: Ultrasonic Weapon Cleaning SolutionUItrasonic
Weapon Lubricating SolutionThe result is a weapon that looks and feels "factory new". What is Ultrasonics? High frequency sound waves are used to produce more than 40,000 alternating high
and low pressure waves per second. As these waves travel through our specially formulated cleaning solution, millions of microscopic vacuum bubbles form and implode. This process, know as
cavitation, creates an action capable of cleaning up to 16 times more effectively than hand cleaning. In minutes, all dirt, crud, light rust, loose lead, powder buildup and copper residue are
removed from even the tiniest grooves and interior areas of the weapon being cleaned. : L & R Weapon Cleaning Systems are available in several models: Choose the Ultrasonic Weapon
Cleaning System that satisfies your requirements The Q140, Q210, Q280, Q420 & Q650 are primarily for handguns. Models Q255, LE30, LESO, LE230 & LE250 are designed for handguns
and/or longarms. These are not stock items. Delivery is usually 4-6 weeks. All provide labor free cleaning, lubricating and conditioning ()usually in under 15 minutes! Proper cleaning is
essential to weapon performance. If you rely on your weapon, rely onThe Ultimate Weapon Cleaning System. Cleaning & Lubricating Solutions