Published in Cooking for Health We're always being told that natural is best and it would seem that milk from cows is, well, natural. So, what about the butter made from that milk? Shopping
shelves are filled with substitutes to butter D such as margarine. It claims to be a healthier alternative, but is it really? You can exercise and watch what you eat, but when it comes to
slathering something tasty on your toast or English Muffin, you probably still ask what's better for me: Butter or margarine? We've heard conflicting reports over the years, so we're going to
find out once and for all what's better for us C] butter or margarine? Eleven recent studies that directly evaluated the health effects of margarine versus butter have all confirmed that soft
margarine is healthier. These 11 studies, involving more than 70,000 individuals, clearly demonstrate the cholesterol-lowering benefits of margarine products compared to butter. Although
some fat is essential, health professionals recommend that we reduce the total of fat in our diet. It is important to pay attention to both the amount and type of fat eaten. Both butter and
margarine are 80% fat and are made with many of the same ingredients, namely fats and oils. The type of fat they contain is the difference between them. Butter is made from milk/dairy fat
which is high in saturated fat and also contains trans fat. Both saturated and trans fat raise blood cholesterol levels. According to a recent study published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association, switching to margarine from butter can greatly reduce blood cholesterol levels. Keeping blood cholesterol under control is a key factor in reducing the risk of heart disease
and stroke. Health professionals recommend choosing margarine instead of butter as one of the simplest ways people can improve their diets to become more heart-healthy. Natural vegetable
oils are the key ingredients that margarines are made from. If they are hardened by hydrogenation then trans fats will be formed. It is therefore best to choose a margarine/spread that is
non-hydrogenated, low in saturated fat and contains mono and polyunsaturated fat that help lower blood cholesterol levels. Not one of the Unilever Margarine and spreads contains any trans
fats. Margarine is clearly the heart-healthy choice recommended by health professionals and leading health organizations. Margarines that have removed the trans fatty acids from their
product has received the endorsement from the heart foundation. So, just because butter comes straight from nature doesn't mean its healthier for you. The smooth spreading of the STORK
Country Spread makes it a popular choice for moms. Find out about our other products that will help you to have flop free days in the kitchen Stork