Take a Look at the QLC's"Green Tips" Save money while you are saving the Earth by following these "Green Tips." Also, read about the rest of the . QLC's new Green initiative here Join the
Committee for a Green Hoboken Fighting global warming starts right here at home. The Hoboken Quality of Life Coalition invites you to join in local efforts to make Hoboken greener. . Its aim
is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from the operations of city government and to inform and encourage individuals to combat global warming in their personal lives. Join the Committee for a
Green Hoboken Visit the HobokenParks.org Web Site to learn more about the Hoboken Open Space Trust Referendum You can learn all about the Hoboken Open Space Trust Referendum (vote
on November 6) at the web site and . HobokenParks.org Referendum FAQ Letter to the Editor re: Church of the Holy Innocents Site "Isn't there a better way?" . Read the QLC's latest Letter to
the Editor concerning the Church of the Holy Innocents Site Redevelopment of the Church of the Holy Innocents Site "On Safe Ground?" . All Saints Episcopal Parish owns the Church of the
Holy Innocents site which consists of three National Register historic structures on 6th Street located on Willow and Clinton. For many years, All Saints has worked on a redevelopment plan for
that site. Unfortunately, several major questions linger: Will the two buildings that are to remain in place survive the demolition of the center building and the construction of a nine story tower
that is to house three floors of a school and 45 to 50 residential units? What are the risks to the integrity of the remaining buildings, and can those risks be mitigated? Read the QLC's position
on redevelopment of the Church of the Holy Innocents Site Hearings before the Hoboken Zoning board of Adjustment will continue on this matter Thursday, May 3, 2007 at 7 p.m. at Hoboken
City Hall. Coalition Coordinator Appointed to State Walkway Planning Team DEP Commissioner Lisa P. Jackson has created a 15-member committee to recommend actions necessary to
complete the Hudson River Walkway. Helen Manogue, Coordinator of the Quality of Life Coalition, Inc. and Secretary of the Hudson River Waterfront Conservancy has been appointed to this
Walkway Strategic Planning Team. Ms. Manogue has a long history of involvement -extending back to 1977 - with getting people to the riverfront that had been off limits for over 100 years to
lobbying Governor Brendan Byrne's Hudson River Waterfront Study, Planning and Development Commission of 1980. She also served on the DEP advisory committee on walkway regulations
during the 1980's. The Strategic Planning Team will offer "specific commitments" for Governor Jon Corzine's consideration regarding a range of activity including planning, development and
construction of the walkway; steps to be undertaken by State agencies to meet those commitments; and means of ensuring that action items become reality. John Weingart, Associate Director
of the Eagleton Institute of Politics is the chair of the team. A History of the Hudson River Walkway We've posted as a positive example of how Hobokenites have been able to make dramatic
improvements in our City and area. The was able to influence many changes starting in the 70s. Their actions are described in this article by John Weingart, formerly a Division Chief at NJ DEP
who was instrumental in working out the legal status and regulations for the Hudson River Walkway. He is now a fellow at the Eagleton Institute. He has also just been named as th:
Chairperson of the newly empanelled Hudson River Waterfront Strategic Planning Team. a history of the Hudson River Walkway Hoboken Environment Committee Don't Miss Out Citizens
interested in particular issues that come before the City Council, Board of Education or the various commissions and boards (such as Planning, Zoning, Historic Preservation Commissions) miss
their opportunities to be heard because they do .not know when the meetings are occurring or what is on the agendas If anyone wishes to request letters of notification regarding the public
meetings of any board or authority, . here is a format that is suggested Letter sent to Governor Corzine Re: Redevelopment Zones and Eminent Domain The QLC sent to Governor Corzine. this
letter QLC granted 501c3 status by the IRS The QLC was designated as a 501c3 organization by the Internal Revenue Service in 2006. As such, all contributions to the QLC are tax deductible.
We hope that you will support the work of our organization. All donations, whether by credit card, bank, or PayPal can be made electronically here or sent to: The Quality of Life Coalition P.O.
Box 1195 Hoboken, NJ 07030