[] edit The facts The saxophone is a highly versatile, if heavy and unwieldy instrument. Saxophonists are very attached to their saxophone...literally. They are literally joined with their beloved
through a high-tech hooker device known as a "sling". This "sling", as it is known, helps to keep the saxophone erect, blowable and versatile. Saxophones have only 2 volumes, loud and
louder. It is well known that saxophonists (those who dabble in sax) "give it beans" in all situations, blocking out all unnesseccary harmonies such as the and . flute clarinet [] edit Saxophone
Idols The one and only, definative god of the saxophone has to be . HE is the inspiration of every saxophonist - the guiding light in a bleak pool of talent. If Charlie Parker were alive today, he
would be jealous of his natural talent (not to mention his soft bouncy hair). Kenny G [] edit Main Music Genres The Saxophone mainly plays music such as... Well, a Saxophone is such a
multi-genre directioned instrument that people can't relate it to any music genre there is. That's because what the saxophone really plays can not be considered "music". A more appropriate
term would be "God-like". Many have been persuaded away from suicide just by hearing a saxophone's heavenly tone. [] edit Role In History Originally called the saxofizzle, the saxophone
was traditionally viewed as a unifying instrument between the brass and woodwinds. Before the invention of the saxophone entire orchestras were wiped off the face of the Earth(zorz) (olde
Englishe) through civil wars which would often break out during Baroque pieces. For example the great clarinet massacre of 1337 (commonly known as the hundred years war) wherein ten
thousand clarinets were slain at the hands of 300 trombones (the alto and bass clarinets revolted at the sight, and utterly destroyed many of the opposing trombones) was pacified by the
courageous efforts of a few good saxophones trained in special-ops. Among their ranks were such influential characters as Oscar Wilde, Rudolf Hess, The Giggle Cannon, DJ Jazzy Jeff, and the
infamous Bleeding Gums Murphy. Today the saxophone continues to be awesome and come in four different flavours: Mariah Carey (much too high), Michael Jackson (slightly too high), just
right (a favourite of young Dutch-Irish jailbait girls), tenor (frequently on sale for as little as a fiver), and Barry White (amazing). All of which are quite influential in the process of making
whoopee, and the preservation of musical harmony. It is a little known fact that a saxophone player was the reason for the Decembrist Revolt in 1825; he called the Tsar a "donkey-dick