Why should the woodwind players have all the fun? Mozart wrote some fun chamber music for woodwind ensembles that is interesting and lively to listen to and fun to perform. It was high time
something like this was arranged for trombone sextet. Not that trombone sextets are that easy to come by, but most college bands will have at least six players good enough to handle this
piece. It is written to be used as a single piece with a segue directly from one section to the other. Of course, you can cut it up or perform it with a pause between as suits your ensemble. Faint
hearts beware, as all six parts are pretty even in difficulty, requiring extended eigth-note runs of all players and sixteenth-note pattems of all but the bass trombone player. The bass trombone
will need to have a solid low C for the solo "clean-up" cadences in the minuet, so nobody gets off easy. This could be a fun intermission piece for a band concert, or an encore piece for a
multi-trombone recital. One thing that bears asking is please, please, I beg you, do not substitute valve trombones or baritone/euphonium horns for real honest slide trombones in this piece
The best effect is the common sonority and singing effect of real slide trombones, played by people who understand and appreciate the particular subtle grace of being able to play completely
in tune, both lip and tube, with real vibrato and genuine vocal effect. Now, you could use this piece with five euphoniums and a tuba, or six bassoons, or five cellos and a bass, and it would be
interesting and satisfying, but that is not the intent. If you must use trombone surrogates, then please substitue all of the parts with voices from the same family. MINUET AND SERENADE, an
arrangement of two short Mozart woodwind pieces for six trombones (five tenors and a bass) by Tom Kirkland, comes in a pdf file of 1111K, with an eleven-page score, six three-page parts,
and a license page, thirty pages in all. Performance time should be approximately 3:40 to 3:50. Midi sound sample: Entire piece. TRK10066A US$3.95 Visit our hard goods division at A
customer commented: "This was a first for me: downloading a book instead of buying it in paper form. The cost of the book in this format was less than many firms charge for shipping an item.
Thad not a single glitch and I would buy another book in this format with no reservations. Tributek did a good job." Another customer commented: "I would like to compliment you on the ease
of purchasing music on-line. I require the music for a wedding in a couple of weeks, and didn't want to wait for music to be sent in the mail. It was great to be able to hear the music and to
know the length of the PDF file and performance time." Another customer writes: "I bought some choral music off your site. It's great. I hope we can do all of it in our church. T don't know how
you can sell it so cheap. It's a great service you offer." NOTE: 98% of www.tributek.com customers who have ever returned satisfaction surveys rate their overall satisfaction as "excellent"
(63%) or "good" (35%). You can't please all of the people all of the time, but we do try very hard. Search for: www.tributek.com - PO Box 8025 - Elbum IL 60119 USA Visit our hard goods
division at Copyright (c)1999-2009 www.tributek.com All rights to all text, sounds, and graphics are reserved. Last update: 15 January 2009