About The Artist: Linda Hubbard Linda T. Hubbard is a photographer who is a native of New England and also loves her home in the Hudson River Valley. I love to capture the beauty, peace
and serenity of nature - the sunlight on the mountains, the incredible detail of a flower, the glorious colors of the sun setting over the river." Her photographs bring back memories of a favorite
place or a time of joy and happiness. They take you to a places that you would like to be, a season that warms and cheers you, or a peaceful setting that soothes your soul. She also writes
poems to go with many of the photos. The photographs can enhance your home or office, be a special gift for various occasions or be a remembrance of a special place. Linda has been listed
in the Art in America Guide. She has done fine art and craft shows throughout New York, Vermont , Massachusetts, and Connecticut. She has exhibited at Barnes and Noble in Poughkeepsie,
Ny, the Brass Anchor Restaurant in Poughkeepsie, NY, the Cunneen Hackett Cultural Center in Poughkeepsie, NY, the Howland Cultural Center in Beacon, NY, the Highland Cultural Center in
Highland, NY, the Ridgefield Guild of Artists, Ridgefield, Conn, Waveny Park, New Canaan, Conn., the Catskill Mountain Foundation in Hunter, New York, the Eliza Pritzker Gallery in New Paltz, NY
and at many local galleries and stores. Her work is part of private collections in the United States, South America, Australia and Europe. Her work is currently at RiverWinds Gallery, 172 Main
St, Beacon, NY plus other locations listed on the Show page. Retired from IBM, where she held various management positions, she now devotes her time to capturing the beauty of nature
through her photography business, and her gallery, Country EleganceRiverWinds, 172 Main Street, Beacon, New York www.RiverWindsGallery.com Linda is also Past President of the Hudson
Valley Artisans Guild. She is on the Dutchess County Tourism Advisory Board, the Beacon Arts Community Association (BACA) Board , the Mill Street Loft Board and chairs Art Along the
Hudson. She is also a member of the Dutchess County Arts Council, the Mid-Hudson Photo Club, the Dutchess Professional Photographers Association, and the Mid-Hudson Women's Network,
www.BeaconArts.org www.artalongthehudson.com,