The movement that changed everything. by Gregory J. FlorezCHOOSING THE RIGHT ELLIPTICAL This is an aerobic category that has become tremendously popular over the past five years.
Elliptical training combines the best of stair climbing, cross country skiing, and running in a low impact, variety rich workout. It is a highly effective cross training activity that is viable for
anyone from beginning exercisers to elite athletes. It is worth noting that Precor is the inventor of the . Now elliptical trainers have become a mainstay amongst cardiovascular exercise
equipment. Elliptical Fitness Crosstrainer Shopping for your elliptical Most families will have more than one individual that will likely be using the equipment. It's important to consider their
goals and needs as well as the primary users. Runners will benefit from the non-impact movement as a complement to their running. Older users will appreciate the fluidity and ease of the
motion.Consider your goals and the goals of other potential exercisers in your home before you start your search. Make a list of local retailers who specialize in fitness equipment - not hockey,
basketball and golf. These dealers will likely have a more educated staff, higher quality equipment and the ability to assemble and service your product more effectively. Sometimes these
dealers will also have relationships with personal trainers to help you start your program.Start your shopping with an authorized specialty fitness retailer. Almost any unit will feel and seem
adequate if you test it for 5 minutes. It's only when you begin to put an elliptical through its paces by adjusting the ramp, using different programs, or exercising in both forward and reverse
motions that you will start to notice major differences in quality and comfort. The best will utilize a wide variety of muscle groups depending on angle and forward or backward motion. Plan on
wearing comfortable exercise clothes and walking or jogging shoes.Go to the store prepared to test the equipment in the manner in which you will be using it. elliptical trainers Must Have's
This is a feature that makes this product a true . Adjusting the ramp incline varies the focus on muscle groups and provides a great way to add variety to the routine. Few offer this feature, but
it's one worth finding since that added variety can reduce boredom, enhance motivation, and keep you from reaching an exercise plateau. You're not likely to find this feature on an elliptical
with an upper-body motion. If you do, be cautious as it may present safety concerns regarding balance during your workout.Adjustable incline. cross-trainer ellipticals The elliptical motion
provides the closest simulation to walking and running available without the impact. An important factor to look for here is the feel of the motion. Some machines have a "kick" in their motion
where the heel comes up off of the platform. You don't want to feel any "kick" or "bounce" in your motion. Find a machine that provides a true elliptical movement pattem for both forward and
backward directions.lliptical motion. This is a critical question to ask when trying an . Does the product feel smooth? You can only determine this by trying several types of units. Spend at
least 20 minutes exercising on a unit. You should not feel unusual stress on your knees or hips. Also when using the unit, you should be able to exercise in a neutral position without reaching
for the handrails or bending over.How does the movement "feel?" elliptical Some machines have upper body levers to add an upper body workout element. If you are not strength training (see
balanced fitness), having upper body movement can help accomplish some upper-body strengthening. Keep in mind that if you are testing an upper and lower body , make sure that both
motions are comfortable and intuitive. You should not have to lean to complete the range of motion or otherwise compromise your position. Test different machines to find what is most
comfortable for you.Dependent upper body motion. elliptical trainer The ability to move in a forward or reverse motion adds variety and challenge to the workout. This also greatly reduces the
risk of repetitive use injuries common with some elliptical buying guide and stair climber users. Most have this option. Note that an adjustable ramp, combined with forward and reverse motions
further varies the movement, muscle involvement, and intensity of the workout in both directions.Forward and Reverse motions. ellipticals Look (and listen) for a product that feels smooth and
is quiet in operation. A truly well designed should be relatively silent at all intensity levels.Quiet operation. elliptical trainer Good units will have a broad range of resistance that is adjusted
electronically. Look for a system that makes resistance changes simple and intuitive so that interval training sessions can be easily incorporated into your routine.Adjustable resistance. Many
have a spectrum of features to lure buyers ranging from calories expended to amount of energy used. Consider what is important to you and how you will use it. You can find more details on
specific electronic features and their advantages in "programming and motivation." The key is to look for electronic features that are both motivating and challenging. Look for an electronic
package that will grow with you as you progress and one that will accommodate the needs of multiple users.Electronic Features. ellipticals A quality can serve as the foundation for a home
exercise room. It is very flexible, space efficient, and quiet. For the user who already has a or a bike, it is a great addition to add variety and cross training elements to enhance any sport or
recreational activity. elliptical trainer elliptical buying guide Things to remember when shopping for an elliptical trainer Shopping for an : elliptical trainer Consider both your goals and other
members of the household's goals before you begin your search Start shopping with a specialty fitness retailer Go to the store prepared to test the equipment- wear exercise dothes! Must
haves: Easy to read and easy to use console Adjustable ramp (for lower body ellipticals only) Good elliptical motion Judge if the elliptical motion feels smooth to you Dependent upper body
motion (for total body ellipticals only) Forward and reverse motion capabilities and smoothness Quiet operation Variety of electronic features important to you Safety and Maintenance Look
for electronic safety features like warm-up and cool-down periods, adjustable resistance, and heart rate feedback and interactivity. Make sure the has handrails or console grips that are
comfortable without being obtrusive. Can you exercise comfortably without hitting them? Are they ergonomically located so that you can use them when you start or stop? Testing in the store
for several minutes will help you choose wisely.Safety features. elliptical should also be evaluated when considering safety features. Avoid machines with a "kick" in the motion that causes your
heel to come off the foot pedal during exercise and be sure to avoid machines that produce any discomfort or unusual stress on your knees or hips.The elliptical movement Look for a product
that is maintenance-free. A well-designed unit takes normal wear and tear into account so you don't have to.Maintenance. An elliptical is an electronic piece of equipment. A quality unit is a
long-term investment that, with regular use, will require service at some point. Most quality units will offer a lifetime warranty on the frame. When it comes to other components, look for a
warranty that provides for at least 1 year of labor and a minimum of 1-3 years coverage on parts. Ask your salesperson what components are covered. Be sure your warranty includes
electronics and other key components. Equally as important, does the dealer from whom you are purchasing have their own service staff who are trained and authorized by the manufacturer to
service your equipment?Warranty. Programming and Motivation The basics from a fitness point of view are: elapsed time, stride, and incline, Having a measure of calories burned can also be
very motivating. Consider what additional information or features will help keep you motivated day after day. Some of the most useful added features include: Measuring your heart rate (HR)
is the surest indicator of progress and intensity. Everyone has a target heart rate range for which you should work within. Too high and you risk injury. Too low and you won't reach your goals.
The best ellipticals will actually adjust your workout variables while measuring your heart rate to make sure that you stay within this range. There are two categories here: HR interactive vs. HR
display. The ideal is HR interactive because the machine will make automatic adjustments for you to keep you at your desired HR. You simply punch in the desired HR and the machine will
respond accordingly throughout the workout.HR interactivity. One of the biggest reasons people quit a program is boredom. Having a product that provides a myriad of programs will help keep
a program fresh and full of variety. The ability to customize a program for your specific needs is also a great feature. Look for some research behind the programs.Pre-set and custom programs
 The best products will "remember" your favorite workouts or allow you to create your own custom course. Look for the ability to create and store custom courses in order to duplicate them
again.Custom Courses. In the world of personal training we have found over the years that many diients are intimidated or simply frustrated with the amount of features and buttons on
electronic equipment. It becomes another obstacle to regular exercise. The best products keep it simple. It should take no more than 2 to 3 steps to launch a program. Look for an elliptical that
has a manual or "quick start" mode. These modes require only 1-2 pushes of a button and you go.Ease of Use. The key to success in any exercise program is consistency over the long haul. If
you find a product that can add variety and challenge to your routine, you are more likely to stay motivated and experience success in reaching your goals. Look for features like an adjustable
ramp, forward and reverse motions, and adjustable resistance levels. Minor tweaks to one or more of these variables will keep your routine fresh and challenging. Variety. About Author
Gregory Florez oversees the nation's premier personal fitness and educating company. First Fitness is considered the leading experts on the fitness and sports and fitness industry. Gregory and
his staff provide information, education, coaching, and tools to consumers, sports and fitness professionals, equipment manufacturers and retailers, and health care payers and providers
worldwide. Gregory is featured in publications such as The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, MSNBC.com, Men's Journal, and Ladies Home Journal magazine.
Gregory and his staff work with major equipment manufacturers and specialty fitness retailers to train their staffs to become "Fitness Equipment Experts. The FEX certificate program is a joint
endeavor with the American Council on Exercise to provide professional support for customers who buy exercise equipment. Some of Gregory's accomplishments include: Spokesperson for
ACE (the American Council on Exercise) Appointment to board of advisors for IDEA (the International Association for Fitness Professionals), the largest educator of fitness professionals in the
world Board of Advisors for Newlife Technologies Contract athlete for Nike Lecturer for The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) To find out more about Precor and their , please
choose from the following: elliptical buying guide