Full Scholarships Available for Educators Scholarships available now for educators to take NVCC Course: .Teaching with Local Historic Sites More  , Thank you for visiting. I hope you will stay
a while and feel free to roam around as you learn more about Welcome Where America HappenedTM Use our or links above to do just that, explore, or plan a visit and experience the feeling of
walking in the footprints of those who created America. Explore by Interest Explore by Region Visit our section to learn about the programs we have created for students of every age.

Education of National Geographic Society's book, which is just off the press: or any of the other publications we have produced to share the stories of our American History and Heritage. Order
a copy Journey Through Hallowed Ground, Birthplace of the American Ideal... These are some of the programs we have created to share our American Heritage with you. This website and all
our programs have been created by The Journey Through Hallowed Ground Partnership, a non-profit organization which relies on the support of many. We invite you to become a supporter as
we work to ensure the stories and contributions of those who created the ideals of our country-from its communities, farms, citizens unknown and those known to the world-are shared and
celebrated. . Again, thank you for visiting, retum often and I invite you to . Cate Magennis Wyatt, Founder and President Your support is vital to this effort Take The Journey to Where America
Happened President Bush Signs Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area Into Law On May 8, President Bush endorsed legislation sponsored by Congressman Wolf and
Senator Wamer, to establish the Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area, the 38th-and most historic-National Heritage Area in the nation. This designation is a tribute to the
collective efforts of the over 200-partners who have worked for two years to educate members of Congress and the White House. This national honor will expand opportunities for to share the
educational programs for students of every age. More  National Geographic Society Book Showcases the Journey Through Hallowed Ground Take home a first edition copy of National
Geographic Society's new book, , today. Journey Through Hallowed Ground: Birthplace of the American Ideal On every page, this book evokes the beauty of Americas hallowed ground. Ina
rich tapestry of images and words, it weaves a powerful history that stretches for centuries across the most dramatic events this county has known. This book is a gift to everyone who cares
about this nation and its past. ~ Edward Ayers, National Book Award winner and Pulitzer Prize finalist This is the perfect gift for graduation, Mother's Day, Father's Day..actually, everyday.
Celebrate our shared American heritage by ordering your copy today. Order Now More information II 1111 Contact Us None of this would be possible, without the support of many,
please consider joining this effort The Journey Through Hallowed Ground Partnership is a non-profit organization dedicated to raising awareness of this region and encouraging Americans and
world visitors to appreciate, respect, and experience this rich cultural landscape through education and heritage tourism. Information is deemed to be accurate at time collected. Not all sites
listed have public access. Please contact destinations before visiting, and respect the rights of property owners. This site assumes no liability for errors and omissions. Some photographs on
this site are copyrighted  by Kenneth Garrett. Please contact us for permission for use. Know something we don't?  2008 The Journey Through Hallowed Ground