Teleshopping Drop The Dead Donkey The action of this classic satirical comedy takes place in the fictitious offices of Globelink News TV, which has just been acquired by media tycoon Sir
Royston Merchant, who decides to set in motion a dumbing down process, making it sensationalist rather than controversial.Although Sir Royston is never seen to interfere personally, his
wishes are carried out by his 1980s-reject envoy Gus Hedges, a man with all the warmth of a cold chip and who communicates in ridiculously overblown 'media-speak'. Fronting Globelink the
anchor-team of newsreaders, Henry and Sally. Henry Davenport is an old-fashioned newsman and a walking cliche - he drinks far too much, dates women 20 years his junior and rants loudly
about anything you could think of. Sally meanwhile, embodies all that Henry hates: she is a brainless bimbo, obsessed with her own career and completely unprofessional in her attitude to hard
news stories. Beneath Sally's porcelain facade is a sad and lonely character. In sharp contrast, the head of the editorial unit, George Dent, is a perpetually harassed and means well but is too
weak to stand up to Gus. Alex on the other hand is his second-in-command - is a fiercely bright woman whose dedication to serious news gathering and often clashes with Gus. Next in
command is Dave Charnley, a compulsive womaniser who still cares about delivering a decent end-product. This is more than can be said about field reporter Damien Day, an unprincipled,
glory-driven egotist quite happy with the way Globelink is headed. The thing is, it wasn't the topicality of the material that makes this show so watchable - with a deeply disparate array of
characters, comic sparks are bound to fly. Gus becomes increasingly out of step with the real world; Helen agonises over whether to tell her daughter that she is gay; Dave grows concerned
over his inability to remain faithful to his lovers; Henry becomes anxious about growing old and living alone; Sally has a nervous breakdown, while Damien remains unstable throughout!