History California Highway Patrol Academy Founded 1930 The legislation which created the California Highway Patrol (CHP) also authorized establishment of its own training school; thus the
CHP Academy was founded in 1930. The original Academy was located at Mather Field near Sacramento. The first Academy class began on May 26, 1930, consisting of a two-week session for
Inspectors and Captains. The first class for Traffic Officers began a few months later on September 16, 1930. The Academy later moved to the State Fairgrounds in Sacramento under the
grandstands. This location presented a rugged endurance and survival test for cadets since the concrete grandstand leaked in rainy weather and it was almost impossible to heat the classroom
and dormitory areas. A shortage of funds in 1938 caused the Academy to be suspended as a full-time training school and for the next 11 years it operated sporadically for recruit classes only.
 The Expansion Years The Academy was revived and given permanent status in 1948. The first fixed training facility was established in 1954 at a cost of approximately $600,000 on
Meadowview Road in South Sacramento. This facility encompassed 224 acres and was designed to house 80 resident students. Temporary buildings were added in 1965 to accommodate 360
resident students during the Patrol's expansion in 1966-1968. It readily became apparent that these temporary buildings would need to be replaced by a larger training facility. On September
17, 1974, groundbreaking ceremonies were held for a new Academy on a 457-acre site in Yolo County. Facility A Premier Law Enforcement Training Facility The present California Highway
Patrol Academy is one of the most modern and complete law enforcement training academies in the United States. The Academy will accommodate 280 students in dormitory rooms designed
for up to two persons per room. There are four rooms to a cluster, and these rooms share a common restroom. The dining facility is designed to seat 400 persons. Food is served
cafeteria-style, three times daily. The multipurpose room serves as 2 gymnasium as well as an auditorium for graduation ceremonies. The gymnasium is complete with a full basketball court,
exercise machines, weight training equipment, and a whirlpool bath. Other physical training facilities consist of a quarter-mile running track, a 442-foot long obstacle course, 2.3- and 3.6-mile
jogging trails, and a baseball field. A large water safety tank is used to teach water safety and underwater vehicle extraction rescue training. An underwater viewing room allows students and
instructors to observe rescue techniques as they are performed. A recreation room is available for students use during their leisure time. This room contains entertainment and recreational
equipment, an interactive videodisc training computer, individual video training stations, snack facilities, wide screen television, an automated teller machine and the Recreation Fund Post
Exchange (P.X.). The Staff Office is also located in the Recreation Building and is staffed 24 hours a day. The Academy maintains a full-time video production unit as well as a graphic arts and
still photography unit. They create public information booklets, public service announcements, training materials and recruitment literature for distribution to allied agencies and the public at
large. There are seven classrooms designed to accommodate a total of 362 students. Three of the classrooms are tiered, and interlocking walls make it possible to divide the rooms for smaller
groups. Each classroom is equipped with a video projector and other standard audiovisual equipment. Additionally, connecting cables are available for computer generated classroom
presentations. All audiovisual equipment can be operated by the instructor while standing at the podium. Academics 27 Intense Weeks... 1,100 Training Hours Academically, cadets are
responsible for 42 "learning domains" mandated by the (POST), in addition to agency-specific policies and procedures. During the 27-week program, cadets will receive over 1,100 hours of
training. Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training Cadets must also be certified as Emergency Medical Responders during Academy training. This 48-hour course is administered by
the Emergency Medical Services Unit. It has been recognized as a model program and has been credited with the saving of many lives. The Emergency Vehicle Operations Course (EVOC) is
famous throughout the world as the finest law enforcement driver training program available. The course consists of a 2.3-mile, high-performance driving track, two skid recovery practice areas
and a defensive driving course. Additional riding facilities are provided for the Motorcycle Enforcement Training Course. The Weapons Training Unit has both an indoor and outdoor range, each
equipped with 30 electronically controlled moving targets. The entire area has lighting which can be controlled to simulate different environmental conditions or to allow training during hours of
darkness. Specialized Training The Academy Presents Many Specialized Departmental Training Courses In Addition To Training For Other Law Enforcement Agencies The CHP Academy is
recognized as one of the finest law enforcement institutions in the world. The primary function of the Academy is to provide basic training for newly appointed CHP cadets. Its secondary
function is to provide specialized and in-service refresher training for CHP employees as well as law enforcement agencies from both within and outside the State of California. Courses
presented include traffic accident reconstruction, commercial enforcement, emergency medical technician, emergency vehicle operations, tactical riot and general law enforcement training.
Other courses include training for departmental operators and clerical staff. Providing the best training available is a trademark of the Academy. Please enjoy your visit to our facility. Feel free
to ask questions of any staff member assigned to the Academy. They will be happy to provide additional information on their individual duties or responsibilities. California Highway Patrol
Academy 3500 Reed Avenue West Sacramento, CA 95605 Recruitment Program ?1 (888) 4A CHP JOB CHP 898 (Rev. 12/1998) OPI 031