About Healthy Kids: Steering Committee Message from the Chair Dear Community Member, It is a pleasure to be able to report to you on our first full year of operations of Healthy Kids.
Turning the vision of Healthy Kids into reality has taken four years of work from many individuals and organizations. Healthy Kids is a unique organization. It is a true community collaborative.
Our community hospitals, clinics, county departments, community service organizations, and children health advocates worked together on a local solution to the problem of children access to
healthcare. What is extraordinary about this effort is that the solution is local. Our community is working together so that all children in Sonoma County have access to healthcare. I would like
to thank all of the medical and dental providers, donors, community based organizations, and staff members who contributed to the successful launch of Healthy Kids. Best, Mary
Maddux-Gonzalez, M.D. Chair, Steering Committee Healthy Kids Sonoma County Steering Committee Elisabeth Chicoine Director of Nursing, Public Health Division Sonoma County Health
Services Department Walter Collins President & CEO United Way of Sonoma, Lake & Mendocino Counties Marion Deeds Economic Assistance Section Manager Sonoma County Human Services
Department Jerry Dunn Assistant Director Sonoma County Human Services Department Kathy Foster, MD Chairperson Children and Families Commission Naomi Fuchs Executive Director
Southwest Community Health Center Leonard Klay, MD Sonoma County Medical Association Andrea Learned Vice President St. Joseph Health System Sonoma County Mary Maddux-Gonzalez,
MD, MPH Health Officer & Public Health Division Director Sonoma County Health Services Department Andrea Michelson Community Benefits & Community Health Manager Kaiser Permanente
Santa Rosa Pedro Villela Toledo, Jr. Director of Community & Government Relations Redwood Community Health Coalition Gregory Rosa, MD Sonoma County Medical Association Viveka Rydell
Executive Director Pediatric Dental Initiative Rita Scardaci, MPH Director Sonoma County Health Services Department Suzie Shupe President Shupe and Associates Jennie Tasheff Health

Program Manager Sonoma County First Five Penny Vanderwolk Community Relations Manager Sutter Medical Center Santa Rosa Carl Wong, Ed.D. Superintendent of Schools Sonoma County
Office of Education