Front Yard Fences Classic picket fences are an attractive and timeless option for the front yard. Unless you live in the country, most areas have some form of restrictions on . However, many of
us prefer to have some sort of boundary whether for definition, containing an animal, or for privacy. What are the best choices for front yard fencing? Some common types of fencing materials
include: cedar, vinyl, chain link, wrought iron, split rail, and picket. Chain link fencing works wonderfully for containing a dog and wood is great for privacy, but neither are very attractive for
front yard use. With wood panels and chain link out of the picture, we are left with vinyl, picket, split rail, and wrought iron. . A very popular choice for decorative fencing. Vinyl fencing is
easy to maintain and comes in a wide variety of heights and styles. It is also easy to install and very affordable. front yard fencing Some fencing styles are perfectly practical and functional in
the back yard, but really won't work in the front. Vinyl fencing . Picket fencing actually refers to a specific style instead of material and can be made out of either wood or vinyl. A classic
favorite that has been used for years, picket fencing is very attractive in the front yard.Picket fencing . Wrought iron is very durable and can be custom made in multiple designs. A bit more
expensive, but definitely an elegant and impressive look. You can add instant curb appeal to your home with a wrought iron fence.Wrought iron fencing . Definitely more of a rustic look, split
rail fencing blends wonderfully into the natural landscape. To really complement the surroundings, have your contractor custom build the fence from the trees native to the area. Itis a
common and easy mistake to overlook the fencing ordinances for your area. Unfortunately, it is your responsibility to research what is allowed before you install your new fencing. You can
possibly be faced with fines or the complete removal of the fence if your neighborhood is a stickler for the rules. Do your research and then request free estimates from to build your front yard
fence. Split rail fencing