OBAMA'S DUBIOUS & HYPER EXPENSIVE MEDICAL RECORDS ... Your editor has been a musician for many decades. He started the first band his Quaker school ever had and played drums with
bands up until 1980 when he switched to stride piano. He had his own band until the mid-1990s and has played with the New Sunshine Jazz Band, Hill City Jazz Band, Not So Modem Jazz Band
and the Phoenix Jazz Band. Here are a few tracks: SAM SMITH'S DECOLAND BAND JELLY ROLL PHOENIX JAZZ BAND APEX BLUES  Sam playing with the Phoenix Jazz Band at the Central
Ohio Jaz festival in 1990. Joining the band is George James on sax. James, then 84, had been a member of the Louis Armstrong and Fats Waller orchestras and hadappeared on some 60
records. More notes on James OH MAMA Sam piano & vocal January 12, 2009 OBAMA'S INAUGURATION PREACHER s - [Rick] Warren thinks that my fellow atheists and I are automatically
unfit to hold public office, because we're "arrogant" (unlike, of course, people who think they have a direct pipeline to God and therefore can tell the rest of us what God wants us to do).
Warren thinks mainstream Protestantism is "Marxism in Christian clothing." Warren's work on AIDS in Africa consists largely of promoting AIDS in Africa by opposing effective prevention
programs. Warren's favorite African preacher is terrified of witches and hates gay people so much he wants them thrown in prison and published the names of thousands of them so his
followers could persecute them.. Now, I'm not saying that Warren isn't genuinely moderate, compared to his rival "evangelical" Bible-thumpers. . . But Rick Warren is still a sick, twisted human
being, and the smiling front-man for intolerably cruel and stupid policies. Intellectually and morally, he's several cuts below Jeremiah Wright (of whom I am by no means an admirer). Yet
Warren, like his predecessor the Rev. Dr. Billy Graham, is treated with respect in the mass media, his many flaws airbrushed out of the picture. That's a problem. Mark Kleiman, Same Fact