Disneyland Fireworks Show - Disneyland Theme Park Fireworks _ Disneyland opened July 17, 1955, with 18 major attractions. Today, there are more than 60 attractions in the
Park. Disneyland Wishes running time is approx. 12 minutes __ Disneyland Fireworks Show, Wishes, is the culmination of 10 years of research and testing by Walt Disney Imagineers in
partnership with the Disneyland Resort. Utilizing a compressed air launch system, Disney's seven new patents have revolutionized the way fireworks are staged, the amount of pollutants
entering the atmosphere and the quality of the show. This new innovation in fireworks technology is also safer for the pyrotechnicians. Eliminating the need for smoke-producing black
powder, the new launch system significantly reduces ground-level smoke and noise while still providing guests with a spectacular fireworks show. Dr. Ben Schwegler, chief scientist of Walt
Disney Imagineering (WD1), said that The Walt Disney Company is recognized as an industry leader and the world's largest producer of fireworks shows. The seven patents developed during 10
years of research and development are being donated to a nonprofit organization so these patents can be licensed to other pyrotechnic providers. The gesture was recently applauded by the
American Pyrotechnics Association, a nationwide advocate of fireworks safety standards. Future plans include incorporating the new system at other Disney parks around the world. To view
the fireworks show, a technological marvel of lights, sound and sky blasts, follow Main Street, your entry point into Disneyland to Sleeping Beauty Castle. The moat to the castle is blocked off
during the show so you may want to plant yourself as close to that location as possible. Crowds begin to form half an hour before the show begins and if it rains, the show is often cancelled.
Fantasy in the Sky, the earlier fireworks show featured traditional fireworks displays while Wishes engages the audience with sound, lighting displays and even laser lights. It tells the story of
making wishes come true through soundtracks, Tinker Bell and pyrotechnics. The display is synchronized with a soundtrack, fireworks and Tinker Bell's appearance. The colors of the show
can shift from deep red to an eerie green with white ghosts projected onto the castle as a dark cloud of smoke emanates from a fireworks display in the air. Waterfalls, ghosts and a host of
sights and sounds are a feast for those who want to be entertained. As fantastic as any light show you may see, some say this display does not quite match Epcot Illuminations fireworks display
or Disney-MGM Studios Fantasmic--two of Walt Disney World's crowning achievements. But for Orange County, California, and Anaheim where it all began, the simplicity and environmental
enhancements are welcomed as positive signs for the rosy future of Disneyland. About Walt Disney Imagineering: Walt Disney Imagineering is an organization that creates from concept
through construction. Unique and innovative, all Disney theme parks, resorts, attractions, cruise ships, real estate developments, and regional entertainment venues worldwide utilize
Imagineering for displays, illusions and special effects. With more than 1,400 creative and technical professionals representing more than 140 diverse disciplines working to bring projects to
fruition, there's a huge amount of talent focused on making the world more lively and interesting,