David Hanscom David has been in the entertainment business since 1989 and is acknowledged as an industry expert both locally and nationally. He started his career working for A.F.R.T.S.
(Armed Forces Radio and Television Services) during High School, while living in Bermuda. David has also worked in a variety of entertainment fields including radio, television (music video
show production), record company street teams and concert/event promotion & management firms. In 1998 David moved to Jacksonville, FL and started Y? Entertainment, Inc. David is an avid
supporter of continued education in the Disc Jockey Industry. He annually attends and is a guest speaker at the N.A.M.E. "Building for the Future", Mobile Beat and many other education
conferences across the country. David is the current Preident of N.FP.D.J.A. (North Florida Professional DJ Association). He is a contributing author to the "National Entertainer" and "Mobile
Beat Magazine". David eared the accreditation of Endorsed Professional Entertainer through N.A.M.E. And is one of only TWO Djs in the State of Florida to earn the "E.P.E." accreditation.
David is also a graduate of the Florida Academy of Mobile Entertainment F.A.M.E. David encourages all DJs to pursue opportunities for Continued Education and to always strive to be the
"professional" mark by which the rest of the DJ Industry is measured. David is also an inspirational speaker available for speaking engagements, both local and abroad. In January of 2007
David will be instructing at the first ever "Beginner Mobile Entertainer Certification Program" to be offered in conjunction with a Community College Continued Education & Certification Program.
Through the co-support of FAME and the Non-Profit organization, FMEG (Florida Mobile Entertainment Group) David hopes to have the Program in more than 20 Community Colleges across the
State of Florida by 2009. I became involved with FAME because I first and foremost wanted to do everything I can as an industry leader to support educational opportunities offered to
upcoming DJs. The Mobile Entertainment Industry has been very good to me and this is my chance to give something back to the DJs that will come along in the future. Eric Wenningstarted his
career at the young age of 11 years old. His first wedding was a Jamaican reception at the age of 13. Eric has grown and evolved over the years to an outgoing, interactive, take your event to
the next level DJ. Eric has DJ'd across the country in many different cities and states. With a passion to travel, he is always willing to entertain and meet new people. As far as meeting new
people he met Robb Smith at the 2005 NAME conference in Philadelphia. Rob's business practice and business ethics intrigued Eric. He wanted to learn more about the FAME School and Robbs
Sales techniques. Eric then hosted a FAST Seminar in Pittsburgh at Dave N Busters and had Robb Smith come to teach his sales techniques to other DJs from Pittsburgh & Ohio. There after
Eric became so interested in the FAME DJ School he became an Instructor.Starting out his business as a sole proprietor, his company has now evolved into a growing entertainment business. In
2005 Eric expanded to accompany the growing needs of his clients. To this day they now offer Concert Production, Corporate Rentals, Lighting, Live Sound, Audio/Video Production & Recording,
Event Coordinating, Event Photography, Stage & Tent Rentals, and of course the soul of the business - Disc Jockeys.Eric has also teamed up with Impact Audio which offers most of Wenning
Entertainment's live sound production. They have 4 offices across the nation in Pittsburgh, Harrisburg, Charlotte, and Dallas. This way they can offer multiple sound systems when doing
National Tours. Wenning Entertainment has supplied concert production and live sound for bands such as the Gin Blossoms, Kip Winger, Duncan Sheik, Vieanna Tang, Big & Rich, Barry Manilow
and many more. Wenning Entertainment now has 7 DJ's and a versatile staff to help run his company. From a one man show to an entire Entertainment Company - The Sky is the Limit.