This category in other languages: Danish (9)  - A web-ring for individual geology enthusiasts or not-for-profit geological Societies with educational rather than commercial web pages.
 = This Angels Camp, CA club shares knowledge and interests in rocks and minerals with monthly meetings, a lapadairy store, and an annual show.  - Non-profit organization of rockhounds
interested in all aspects of the earth sciences including such areas as lapidary, collecting, gems, minerals, fossils, crystals, geology, paleontology and gemology.  - The club's purpose is to
foster interest in, and promote knowledge of minerals, gems, fossils, and all earth sciences, and disseminate info and instruction in the lapidary arts, and the utilization of precious metals in
crafts.  - Information on faceting, gems, crystals, rocks, minerals, lapidary arts, fossils, and related club activities in the Midwest U.S.  - Located east of the San Francisco bay area, in
Concord CA, the club has an annual mineral and gem show, monthly meetings, and field trips.  - Family-oriented club, located in San Diego, CA. Activities include field trips, monthly meetings,
jewelry making and shows.  - A non-profit organization dedicated to continuing education in all of the earth sciences, with activities in rockhounding,lapidary arts and jewelry making.  -
Australian gem club whose activities include; monthly meetings, field trips and events. Articles, photos and links.  - This society located in Placerville, California was founded in January 1949
to lear about and share interests in rocks, minerals, fossils, earth sciences, and the lapidary arts, with monthly meetings, a junior program, field trips, lapidary classes, and an annual rock and
gem show and hosts the county fair mineral displays.  - Based in Fallbrook, California. Features events calendar and descriptions of meetings.  - Background and aims of the Society, lists
lecture programmes and gives details of field trips, based Farnham, Surrey, UK.  - The Helsinki Finland society provides information on rocks and minerals to its members, to further stone
polishing skills, and to provide a forum for the exchange of views.  - A non-profit organization located in Boulder, Colorado. Fostering interest and education in earth sciences and associated
hobbies.  - Organization of rockhounds, fossil collectors, and those interested in the lapidary arts.  - A non-profit organization to encourage and promote the hobby of lapidary. Club Directory,
gem and mineral shows, field trips, and other activities of member clubs.  - "Lithophiles" are rock lovers and this club serves the Livermore California area with monthly meetings, field trips,
educational programs, and an annual show "Lithorama".  - Club promotes the study and collecting of minerals, fossils, artifacts and the lapidary arts. Activities include field trips, annual ice
cream social, and Lubbock Gem and Mineral Show.  - Group of individuals who share common interests in collecting and working with gems, minerals, jewelry, geology, and fossils.  - This
California society was established since 1945 to exchange information, teach others, promote field trips, and to provide a club workshop for the lapidary arts.  - Non-profit organization with
workshops, field trips, shows and related links.  - Non-profit organization that holds monthly meetings, field trips, and an annual show about all aspects of geology.  - Purpose is to promote
the Earth Sciences through programs at our monthly meetings. Members enjoy rockhounding (rocks, minerals and fossils).  - Information on active gem, mineral, and jewellery making clubs
in Western Washington, USA.  - Aims to promote and advance the appreciation of rocks and minerals. Includes shows and events schedules, photo gallery and articles.  - This California
society has monthly meetings, and a newsletter to promote the lapidary arts.  - This club centered in the south end of the San Francisco bay, features online copies of monthly newsletters,
that highlight the monthly meetings, speakers, field trips, study groups, and a yearly "Rock and Gem" show.  - This California society was organized 1949, to promote the study and collecting
of minerals and gemstones, with monthly meetings, a newsletter, field trips, a rock shop, and an annual show.  - Special Congress Representing Involved Bulletin Editors -- An organization of
gem and mineral club bulletin editors.  - A gem and mineral club with field trips, lapidary, and rockhounding.  - The official website of the Sequoia Gem and Mineral Society, Redwood City, CA.
SGMS members share interests in lapidary arts, mineral collecting, and other earth sciences.  - Home page of the Sierra Pelona Rock Club, Santa Clarita's Club for Rockhounds. Local events,
Rock collecting sites, field trips, Gems and Minerals  - The Torrance, California society with monthly meetings and field trips for rockhounds, lapidary enthusiasts, and those interested in
geology.  - Tuscarora Lapidary Society, a club outside of Philadelphia, PA offers classes in the lapidary skills. The club also hosts a large annual gem show with exhibits, dealers, and
demonstrations.  - Focuses on the art and skill of faceting gemstones for all skill levels.  - Hosts discussions pertaining to gemstone faceting and design.  - Official web site of the VLMS
(British Columbia, Canada). Club information, activities and events. Amateur Geologists Web-Ring