Find NIH Staff NIH is the nations medical research agency - making important medical discoveries that improve health and save lives. The National Institutes of Health (NIH), a part of the , is
the primary Federal agency for conducting and supporting medical research. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Helping to lead the way toward that and save lives, NIH scientists
investigate ways to prevent disease as well as the causes, treatments, and even cures for common and rare diseases. important medical discoveries improve people's health NIH research
impacts: . wellness and lifestyle issues Composed of , the NIH provides leadership and financial support to researchers in every state and throughout the world. 27 Institutes and Centers For
over a century, the National Institutes of Health has played an important role in improving the health of the nation. The with the creation of the Laboratory of Hygiene at the Marine Hospital in
Staten Island, NY. NIH traces its roots to 1887 - the latest research from NIH NIH News - a look back at important medical discoveries Selected Research Highlights - how NIH research has
benefitted the nation NIH Overview top NIH Mission NIH is the steward of medical and behavioral research for the Nation. Its mission is science in pursuit of fundamental knowledge about
the nature and behavior of living systems and the application of that knowledge to extend healthy life and reduce the burdens of illness and disability. The goals of the agency are as follows:
foster , innovative research strategies, and their applications as a basis to advance significantly the Nation's capacity to protect and improve health; fundamental creative discoveries develop,
maintain, and renew scientific human and physical resources that will assure the Nation's capability to prevent disease; expand the knowledge base in medical and associated sciences in order
to enhance the Nation's economic well-being and ensure a continued high return on the public investment in research; and exemplify and promote the highest level of scientific integrity, public
accountability, and social responsibility in the conduct of science. In realizing these goals, the NIH provides leadership and direction to programs designed to improve the health of the Nation
by conducting and supporting research: in the causes, diagnosis, prevention, and cure of human diseases; in the processes of human growth and development; in the biological effects of
environmental contaminants; in the understanding of mental, addictive and physical disorders; and in directing programs for the collection, dissemination, and exchange of information in
medicine and health, including the development and support of medical libraries and the training of medical librarians and other health information specialists.