Patch of the Wisconsin State Patrol. Agency Overview 510 (as of 2004) [3] Unsworn members 203 (as of 2004) [4] Agency executive The is the force for the state of . It serves a population
of 5.6 million mainly through traffic safety and enforcement on the state highways.Wisconsin State Patrol state police Wisconsin Contents [] edit History The Wisconsin Legislature created
Chapter 110 on , to have the Motor Vehicle Department. That department had three divisions: Registration and Licensing, Highway Safety Promotion and Inspection and Enforcement. The
Inspection and Enforcement division had inspectors who enforced the state motor carrier regulations and the state motor vehicle code. That division eventually became known as the Wisconsin
State Patrol. September 1 1939 Prior to 1939, there were some sort of statewide enforcement efforts through other departments. For example, in 1917, the Dairy and Food Department and
the Oil Inspection Department were legally authorized to conduct investigations of the licensing and vehicle sale laws. Also, in 1931, the State Highway Administration had personnel dedicated
to checking truck weights and traffic. State Patrol-run radio went on the air on , on station WIZR on a frequency of 31.50 MHz. The radio allowed communication with the Patrol's mobile units
and with local law enforcement short-wave stations. February 1 1943 [5] [] edit Mission As stated on its website, the State Patrol provides traffic safety and enforcement services for
Wisconsin. Like all highway patrol and state patrol agencies, its primary mission is to enforce the provisions of the Wisconsin Motor Vehicle laws and other laws to prevent crime. However, the
State Patrol is seen as a state police force and as such, its state troopers have full police authority and statewide jurisdiction although investigating non-traffic crimes is not a priority for the
agency, especially if those crimes occur within an incorporated area that has its own police department. [6] These are the services provided statewide by the agency: Traffic law enforcement
through freeway patrols Accident scene reconstruction and crime scene mapping for investigations Motor carrier safety inspections Commercial vehicle size and weight enforcement
Inspections of school buses, ambulances, motor coaches, and salvage vehicles Evaluation and maintenance of breath-alcohol testing equipment; also provides training to some county and local
law enforcement agencies in using such equipment Assistance to county and local law enforcement agencies when requested upon Law enforcement training at the Wisconsin State Patrol
Academy Traffic safety programs The State Patrol maintains and manages the facilities of the Mobile Data Communications Network (MDCN), a system that supports remote access to
information available from the . The service is provided free of charge to allied criminal justice agencies in Wisconsin. United States Department of Justice [7] [] edit Training A training
academy was established in 1955 to offer formal education instructions in partnership with the Traffic Institute. Since 1957, the agency has been training its recruits with its own staff. The
Wisconsin State Patrol Academy, in , sits on 50 acres (200,000 m) and is used to train State Patrol recruits but also some county and local law enforcement agencies personnel on the latest
techniques in traffic law enforcement. Northwestern University Fort McCoy 2 Training for recruits lasts 21 weeks in a paramilitary setting. Fort McCoy itself is a military installation run by the
United States Army Prior to joining the academy, recruits must pass several phases during initial testing. Those phases include a written exam, two physical events (physical agility and physical
fitness tests), an interview, a background investigation and a psychological/medical exams. [8] [] edit The State Patrol today The State Patrol became part of the Wisconsin Department of
Transportation in the 1960s, and was designated a DOT division in 1977. In 2003, the Bureau of Transportation Safety was incorporated into the State Patrol. In 2005 the State Patrol
reorganized and went from 7 districts to 5 regions. It maintains offices in , (),,, ,, and . DeForest Madison Waukesha Fond du Lac Wausau Tomah Eau Claire Spooner [9] The agency has three
main components: support staff, road patrol troopers and inspectors who are troopers assigned to motor carrier enforcement throughout the state. The State Patrol uses marked, unmarked
vehicles and motorcycles to perform its mission. It also has an aircraft program with four aerial vehicles to monitor traffic, track criminal suspects, perform drug detection and assist in the
search of missing persons. [] edit Strength For a state with a fairly high population, the State Patrol appears not have a large contingent of troopers, at least compared to other states with the
same population. In 2005, Wisconsin had 492 troopers and inspectors according to data provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. By comparison, Maryland, which has about the same
population as Wisconsin, had 1496 troopers. Colorado, population 4.8 million, had 705. West Virginia, with 1.8 million residents, had 616. That said, caution should prevail when reading these
comparisons as some jurisdictions might be busier than others in fighting crimes, a fact that can affect the level of staffing for departments. Other factors such as varied demographic traits and
type of jurisdictions (state police vs. highway or state patrol) impact staffing level as well. The remains the nation's largest state police force with 6953 officers, according to the same FBI data,
[11] California Highway Patrol [12] [] edit Fallen Officers Since the creation of the Wisconsin State Patrol, 4 officers have died in the line of duty, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page.
[13] Officer