A 2007 ad featuring catcher and having a conversation about in the cafeteria. Minnesota Twins Joe Mauer Scott Van Pelt Minnesota A 2007 ad featuring is introduced to members of anchor 's
family. He greets each one by spitting into each of his batting gloves, slapping them together and shaking their hand, similar to his typical . Boston Red Sox DH David Ortiz John Buccigross
batting ritual Another 2007 ad featuring shows David, anchor and of the sitting at a conference table. The three are talking about hats, and David asks to see the Yankees hat to bend the brim
(to break it in). As he puts it on his head, (The Red Sox' Mascot) walks by, sees Ortiz in the Yankees hat, drops the video tapes he's carrying and is mortified - refusing to have anything to do
with Ortiz, even though Ortiz pleads "it's not what you think!" David Ortiz Stan Verrett Jorge Posada New York Yankees Wally the Green Monster A 2007 ad featuring arriving at ESPN offices
and sits in his cubicle in a standard office chair. He realizes something is wrong so he goes to his neighbor cubicle and Van Peltis sitting in a throne, (which he took from "King James" cubicle.)
Getting Lebron to ask, "Scott, did you possibly switch chairs with me?" Scott in the commercial said no, but after James' performance in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals, Van Pelt
during the he was on said, "LeBron, I really did take your chair." Cleveland Cavaliers LeBron James Scott Van Pelt SportsCenter 2007 ad features catcher acknowledging cheers of "Hip, Hip,
Jorge!" as he walks down the hall. New York Yankees Jorge Posada A 2007 ad features dressed as a cop as he rescues from a tree (Shaq attended ). At the end Shaq asks Mike if he's all right
and is handed a for his efforts. Shaquille O'Neal Mike the Tiger LSU vitaminwater A 2007 ad features superstar and anchor having a conversation on why never airs pro wrestling highlights.
Towards the end of the commercial, Harris believes that pro wrestling is not a real sport but Cena disagrees. WWE John Cena Jay Harris SportsCenter A 2007 ad features running back sitting
next to the in the office (a take on NFL players cooling off near the fan). New Orleans Saints Reggie Bush air conditioner A 2007 ad features driver performing his trademark , not once but
twice in an attempt to cheer up a dejected in the kitchen. NASCAR Carl Edwards backflip Neil Everett @ 2007 ad has walking down the hallway only to discover having a party complete with the
Scott Van Pelt Tony Romo Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders A 2007 ad features the ' new Big Three of , , and asking anchor for advice on selecting nicknames. (The name Van Pelt coined, the
"Boston Three-Party", has actually been used in ESPN broadcasts.) Boston Celtics Ray Allen Kevin Garnett Paul Pierce Scott Van Pelt A 2007 ad has sorting mail in the mailroom in his jersey
and his helmet. then comes to get his mail, and proceeds to tell LT that the mail isn't his (LT wears a black visor, which in this case is supposed to be detrimental to his vision). LaDainian
Tomlinson Steve Levy A 2007 ad has hired as SportsCenter's "conditioning coach". Richard Simmons A 2008 ad has and anchor having a conversation about fortysomething athletes in the
studio hallway. Chris Chelios John Buccigross A 2008 ad has ESPN employees being locked out of the studio as can't seem to get the door open. Dirk Nowitzki A 2008 ad features poking fun at
NASCAR driver in the cafeteria simply because stock car racing has its roots in the southern United States (Kenseth is from Wisconsin). Brian Kenny Matt Kenseth A 2008 ad has author helping
out with John Anderson's script. Stephen King A 2008 ad features outfielder cleaning the men's room, whistling a tune along the way while John Anderson tries to enter the restroom. Holliday
emerges out of the men's room and then proceeding to do the ladies room. Colorado Rockies Matt Holliday A 2008 ad featured anchor thanking shortstop for borrowing his necklace because
had McKendry not worn the necklace, she would've had a bad show. Chris McKendry Philadelphia Phillies Jimmy Rollins A 2008 ad features anchors and poking fun at women's basketball coach
in the offices. Kenny Mayne John Buccigross University of Tennessee Pat Summitt A 2008 ad features anchor John Anderson recording a promo on ESPN's football demonstration field. However,
he is interrupted by players from the Chicago Rush, who have scheduled the field for practice. A 2008 ad has LSU football coach giving a potential anchor a tour of the studio as if he was
recruiting a high school player for a college team. Les Miles A 2008 ad features Minnesota Vikings running back complaining to anchor about how his sophomore season won't match his rookie
year (hence the so-called "Sophomore Jinx"). Adrian Peterson Jay Hartis A 2008 ad features wide receiver displaying his "incendiary" speed to anchor . Carolina Panthers Steve Smith Kenny
Mayne A 2009 ad has center dominating his dunking ability by dunking anchor in the waste basket and being scored by the people in the conference room, including fellow anchor . Orlando
Magic Dwight Howard John Anderson Neil Everett [] edit Sports practices Many commercials in the series have derived their humor from parodying conventional professional sports practices,
by applying them to working for :SportsCenter One ad has former anchor being "sent down to the " (in his case, working for a high-school TV service, where two students asked him to buy
them some beer, a request he declined to honor). Rich Eisen minors replaces anchor for the show's "Did You Know?" segment, similar to relieving the in a baseball game. San Diego Padres
closer Trevor Hoffman Kenny Mayne starting pitcher The network drafting a can't-miss anchor prospect out of high school, only to see him flame out on the job (", what is he 45? could hit
him!") and ESPN discovering that "he just wasn't ready", how baseball teams often rush their highly-touted prospects to the majors. Also it may reference the fiasco with former San Diego
Chargers quarterback . Jimmy Key I la Ryan Leaf John Buccigross wearing the "anchor-cam", a parody of MLB catchers wearing "catcher-cam" during ESPN and FOX's MLB telecasts. Charley
Steiner being "traded" to in exchange for . Melrose Place Andrew Shue One rather infamous spot is the making of the SportsCenter swimsuit calendar, featuring , and in various states of
revealing swimwear. Bill Pidto Stuart Scott Linda Cohn A parody of post-game interviewing finds a dejected and an upbeat asked about their performances in that evening's broadcast in "locker
room" interviews. Kenny Mayne Dan Patrick Another recent ad has the show going into a (it was a small pipe leaking above the desk), forcing anchors and to wait it out in a as a grounds crew
covers the desk with a tarp. rain delay John Anderson Steve Levy dugout The carpet in the ESPN headquarters is replaced with grass to prevent injuries, a parody of the controversy over
injuries sustained by competing on (in the ad, ESPN workers are shown tripping on the carpet). The anchors have to yell over the sound of the cutting the grass in the studio. football players
AstroTurf lawn mower In a 1997 ad, Dan Patrick and are shown signing off a typical broadcast, and are then given , and they begin broadcasting the version of (with a version of the show's
theme). While explains that they redo the show for overseas markets ("Same highlights, same anchors, different dialects"), they are also shown giving and versions a try, replete with national
costumes, and the theme redone for those cultures. Kenny Mayne SportsCenter sombreros Spanish SportsCenter mariachi Bob Ley Russian German SportsCenter In a recent ad, asks
champion to help him by spelling "". In true spelling bee tradition, Tidmarsh asks for the team (), country of origin (), and for the word to be used in a sentence ("Pujols homered to win the
game."), then slowly spells the word while Van Pelt cuts him off, saying "I found it online, got it." Scott Van Pelt spelling bee David Tidmarsh Albert Pujols St. Louis Cardinals Dominican Republic
A 2006 features brothers and teasing each other while their family is in a tour of the ESPN studio. Peyton Eli Manning A 2006 ad shows and jumping and stretching before a show, similar to
what players do before games. The ad ends with both men easily taking off their "warm-up suits" revealing their show suits underneath. Scott Van Pelt Stuart Scott NBA In one ad discusses ""
and says that every so often there is one. Then they cut to a show where a leak from a pipe above the stage causes a grounds crew to come out and lay a tarp on the set. The anchors and
grounds crew members are seen calling loved ones and chewing gum similarly to baseball players and fans. Scott says "You just hope it lets up. Stuart Scott Rain Delays A 2007 ad has
getting suspended by because he said during a taping (this spot was never aired on the ESPN family of networks because it was deemed too inappropriate for television). Steve Levy Vince
Doria the F-word SportsCenter [] citation needed A 2007 ad features how a video game is made (this ad is a take on the sports video game craze).SportsCenter A 2008 ad features a coin toss
between anchors and to determine who will start the show. Jay Harris Brian Kenny A 2008 ad features how Sportscenter viewers can decides which highlights to air via text messaging. They
can choose one of the three options: have read the highlights, have read the high lights or have a roller-skating parrot dunk a basketball. In the end, they chose the latter. John Anderson Jay
Harris A 2008 ad has anchors and answering phone calls from viewers in a parody of sports call-in shows (including ). Steve Levy John Anderson ESPNRadio A 2008 ad features the pit crews
of and helping anchors and getting ready for the next segment during the commercial. Jeff Gordon Jimmie Johnson Scott Van Pelt Neil Everett A 2008 ad has anchor getting the ax and rallying
for his job in a shopping center in a parody of coaches and managers getting fired. John Buccigross [] edit Sports mascots Sports and are usually present in most ads, often seen casually
milling around in the background, but occasionally they take on an active role: mascots cheerleaders In a 2003 ad, when the show ends, everyone rushes out of the studio, creating a massive
traffic jam. It then shows and driving home on the freeway (with the Met children in the back), with Lady Met subtitled as saying they were glad to get out early. The theme song, "", is on their
car radio. (A shorter version with just the Mets family has Lady Met accusing Mr. Met of making eyes at one of the female ESPN sportscasters.) Mr. Met Lady Met New York Mets Meet the Mets
's mascot, , appears in two "on-campus" spots in 2001. In one, he frustrates ESPN's doctor, who is trying to find his pulse. In the other, he joins , , , , , and others in spreading "" around
Bristol. Boston University Rhett Curt Schilling Jesper Parnevik Kenny Mayne Stewart Scott Linda Cohn the wave 's mascot, , appears in a commercial featuring of the , wherein Wright, , and
lampoon the baseball practice of covering the mouth with the while speaking on the field so that the opposing team cannot read the speaker's lips they discuss where they are to meet for a
party later that evening while covering their mouths, Wright with his glove, the anchors with folders. Wake Forest University The Demon Deacon David Wright New York Mets John Anderson Neil
Everett glove , the ' mascot, which always has an open mouth, is startled to find his "girlfriend," , kissing another anchor. Billy the Marlin Florida Marlins Andrea Kremer SportsCenter , who is
seen pulling practical jokes all over the ESPN building; it is revealed at the end of the commercial that inside the costume was , playing against his image as being and . The San Diego Chicken
Pete Sampras humorless robotic 's , who gets punched by after Steiner is described as being a boxing enthusiast. Syracuse University Otto the Orange Charley Steiner , the ' mascot, receives
the final handoff of gymnast as she is carried around the studio. Sparty Michigan State Spartans Kerri Strug ("The Crocodile Hunter") wrestled with when he spotted the mascot stepping out of
an elevator. Steve Irwin Albert E. Gator Florida Gators _, the mascot of , is confused over which restroom to use until instructs it to "use the woods out back." Big Red Western Kentucky
University Dan Patrick is repulsed by seeing the ordering in the ESPN cafeteria; the Sausage Racers also appear in a 2007 spot where they chase the SportsCenter anchors down the halls of
the ESPN studios, parodying 's . Stuart Scott Milwaukee Brewers Sausage Racers sausage Pamplona Running of the Bulls , the mascot for the , knocks a away from as Roddick bounces it off his
racket into the air in a waiting room. Sam the Minuteman UMass Minutemen tennis ball Andy Roddick The stares at anchor after he throws a crumpled up piece of paper in the garbage can.
Anderson is guilted into taking the paper out of the garbage and puts it into the recycling bin. Stanford Tree John Anderson 's appears in the Y2K episode chasing and then stomping on the
Rutgers University Scarlet Knight University of Connecticut Husky Ina 2002 ad, anchors and are saying some ; as it turns out, it's none other than mascot controlling the teleprompter until he
is stopped by a producer. It's also the only Sportscenter commercial where the closing graphic "This is SportsCenter" doesn't appear at the end of the commercial. Instead it's replaced by "This
is Spillifattr, a take on the spot. Scott Van Pelt Rich Eisen nonsensical words Boston Red Sox Wally the Green Monster The Blue Blob, a mascot of , is shown eating Jim Kelly's NFL Hall of Fame
jacket after beating him in rock paper scissors. Kelly then asks for best 2 out of 3, the Blue Blob declines. Xavier University , mascot for the , appears in the background performing Richard
Simmons' conditioning exercises. He falls down in the end. Brutus Buckeye Ohio State University A 2008 ad features the asking anchor advice on romantic relationships with players. New York
Jets Flight Crew Chris McKendry A 2008 ad features former driver and ESPN Nascar analyst eating lunch with the mascot , but when Wallace can't eat his entire lunch, he gives the rest of his
lunch to YoUDee and the mascot was able to swallow the food in one gulp. NASCAR Rusty Wallace University of Delaware YoUDee A 2008 ad has the mascot working at the answering service
when John Anderson's voice is heard on the answering machine. University of Kansas Big Jay A 2008 ad has the mascot on an elevator when asks: "Goin Up?" and the Devil shakes his head.
Harris then steps out of the elevator. New Jersey Devils NJ Devil Jay Harris