See also: Supercell Tornadoes often develop from a class of thunderstorms known as . Supercells contain , an area of organized rotation a few miles up in the atmosphere, usually 1 6 miles (2
10 km) across. Most intense tornadoes ( to on the ) develop from supercells. In addition to tornadoes, very heavy rain, frequent lightning, strong wind gusts, and hail are common in such
storms. supercells mesocyclones EF3EF5 Enhanced Fujita Scale Most tornadoes from supercells follow a recognizable life cycle. That begins when increasing rainfall drags with it an area of
quickly descending air known as the (RFD). This downdraft accelerates as it approaches the ground, and drags the supercell's rotating mesocyclone towards the ground with it. [11] rear flank
downdraft Formation As the mesocyclone approaches the ground, a visible condensation funnel appears to descend from the base of the storm, often from a rotating . As the funnel descends,
the RFD also reaches the ground, creating a gust front that can cause damage a good distance from the tornado. Usually, the funnel cloud becomes a tornado within minutes of the RFD
reaching the ground. wall coud Maturity Initially, the tomado has a good source of warm, moist inflow to power it, so it grows until it reaches the . This can last anywhere from a few minutes
to more than an hour, and during that time a tornado often causes the most damage, and in rare cases can be more than one mile (1.6 km) across. Meanwhile, the RFD, now an area of cool
surface winds, begins to wrap around the tornado, cutting off the inflow of warm air which feeds the tornado.mature stage Demise As the RFD completely wraps around and chokes off the
tornado's air supply, the vortex begins to weaken, and become thin and rope-like. This is the ; often lasting no more than a few minutes, after which the tornado fizzles. During this stage the
shape of the tornado becomes highly influenced by the winds of the parent storm, and can be blown into fantastic patterns. Even though the tornado is dissipating, the torado is still capable of
causing damage. The storm is contracting into a rope-like tube and, like the ice skater who pulls her arms in to spin faster, winds can increase at this point.dissipating stage [26] [27] [14] As
the tomado enters the dissipating stage, its associated mesocyclone often weakens as well, as the rear flank downdraft cuts off the inflow powering it. In particularly intense supercells
tornadoes can develop . As the first mesocyclone and associated tornado dissipate, the storm's inflow may be concentrated into a new area closer to the center of the storm. If a new
mesocyclone develops, the cycle may start again, producing one or more new tornadoes. Occasionally, the old () mesocyclone and the new mesocyclone produce a tornado at the same time
cyclically occluded Though this is a widely-accepted theory for how most tornadoes form, live, and die, it does not explain the formation of smaller toradoes, such as landspouts, long-lived
tornadoes, or tornadoes with multiple vortices. These each have different mechanisms which influence their development however, most tornadoes follow a pattem similar to this one. [44]
Intensity and damage An example of damage. Here, the roof has been substantially damaged, and the blown outwards, but the walls and supporting structures are still intact. Main article:
Tomado intensity and damage The and the rate tornadoes by damage caused. The Enhanced Fujita Scale was an upgrade to the older Fujita scale, with engineered (by ) wind estimates and
better damage descriptions, but was designed so that a tornado rated on the Fujita scale would receive the same numerical rating. An tornado will likely damage trees but not substantial
structures, whereas an tornado can rip buildings off their foundations leaving them bare and even deform large . The similar ranges from a for extremely weak tornadoes to for the most
powerful known tornadoes. data, , and ground swirl patterns (cycloidal marks) may also be analyzed to determine intensity and award a rating. Fujita scale Enhanced Fujita Scale expert
elicitation EFOEFS skyscrapers TORRO scale TOT11 Doppler radar photogrammetry Tornadoes vary in intensity regardless of shape, size, and location, though strong tomadoes are typically
larger than weak tornadoes. The association with track length and duration also varies, although longer track tornadoes tend to be stronger. In the case of violent tornadoes, only a small
portion of the path is of violent intensity, most of the higher intensity from . [45] subvortices [14] In the United States, 80% of tornadoes are and ( through ) tornadoes. The rate of occurrence
drops off quickly with increasing strength less than 1% are violent tornadoes(, or stronger).EFOEF1TOT3EF4TS [46] Outside the United States, areas in south-central Asia, and pethaps portions
of southeastem South America and southern Africa, violent tornadoes are extremely rare. This is apparently mostly due to the lesser number of tornadoes overall, as research shows that
tornado intensity distributions are fairly similar worldwide. few significant tormadoes occur annually in Europe, Asia, southem Africa, and southeastem South America, respectively. [47]
Climatology Main article: Tornado climatology Areas worldwide where tornadoes are most likely, indicated by orange shading. Intense tornado activity in the United States. The darker-colored
areas denote the area commonly referred to as . Tornado Alley The United States has the most tornadoes of any country, about four times more than estimated in all of Europe, not including
waterspouts. This is mostly due to the unique geography of the continent. North America is a relatively large continent that extends from the south into areas, and has no major east-west
mountain range to block air flow between these two areas. In the , where most tornadoes of the world occur, the block moisture and atmospheric flow, allowing drier air at mid-levels of the ,
and causing downstream to the east of the mountains. The desert Southwest also feeds drier air and the , while the fuels abundant low-level moisture. This unique topography allows for many
collisions of warm and cold air, the conditions that breed strong, long-lived storms many times a year. A large portion of these tornadoes form in an area of the known as . This area extends
into Canada, particularly and the . Strong tornadoes also occasionally occur in northern Mexico. [48] tropical arctic middle latitudes Rocky Mountains troposphere cyclogenesis dry line Gulf of
Mexico central United States Tomado Alley [4] Ontario Prairie Provinces The United States averages about 1,200 tornadoes per year. The Netherlands has the highest average number of
recorded tornadoes per area of any country (more than 20, or 0.0013 per sq mi (0.00048 per km ), annually), followed by the UK (around 33, or 0.00035 per sq mi (0.00013 per km ), per
year), but most are small and cause minor damage. In absolute number of events, ignoring area, the UK experiences more tornadoes than any other European country, excluding waterspouts
[49] [50] [48] Tomadoes kill about 179 people per year in Bangladesh, by far the most in the world. This is due to high population density, poor quality of construction, lack of tornado safety
knowledge, and other factors. Other areas of the world that have frequent tornadoes include South Africa, parts of , , and southern , as well as portions of Europe, Australia and New Zealand,
and far eastern Asia. [51] [52] Argentina Paraguay Brazil [5] [53] Tornadoes are most common in spring and least common in winter. Since autumn and spring are transitional periods (warm
to cool and vice versa) there are more chances of cooler air meeting with warmer air, resulting in thunderstorms. Tornadoes can also be caused by , which tend to occur in the late summer and
autumn. But favorable conditions can occur at any time of the year. [14] landfalling tropical cyclones Tornado occurrence is highly dependent on the time of day, because of . Worldwide, most
tornadoes occur in the late afternoon, between 3 pm and 7 pm local time, with a peak near 5 pm. However, destructive tormadoes can occur at any time of day. The of 1936, one of the
deadliest tornadoes in history, occurred at 8:30 am local time, solar heating [54] [55] [56] [57] [58] [59] Gainesville Tornado [14] Associations with climate and climate change Associations
to various and environmental trends exist. For example, an increase in the of a source region (e.g. Gulf of Mexico and ) increases atmospheric moisture content. Increased moisture can fuel an
increase in severe weather and tornado activity, particularly in the cool season. climate sea surface temperature Mediterranean Sea [60] Although insufficient support exists to make
conclusions, some evidence does suggest that the is weakly correlated with changes in tornado activity; which vary by season and region as well as whether the phase is that of or . Souther
Oscillation ENSO El Ni o La Nia [61] Climatic shifts may affect tornadoes via in shifting the jet stream and the larger weather patterns. The climate-tornado link is confounded by the forces
affecting larger patterns and by the local, nuanced nature of tomadoes. Although it is reasonable that may affect trends in tornado activity, any such effect is not yet identifiable due to the
complexity, local nature of the storms, and database quality issues. Any effect would vary by region. teleconnections global warming [62] [63] Prediction maps issued by the during the heart
of the . The top map indicates the risk of general (including large , damaging winds, and tornadoes), while the bottom map specifically shows the percent risk of a tornado forming within

25 miles (40 km) of any point within the enclosed area. The hashed area on the bottom map indicates 2 10% or greater risk of an or stronger tornado forming within 25 miles (40 km) of a
point. is handled regionally by many national and international agencies. For the most part, they are also in charge of the prediction of conditions conducive to tornado development. Weather
forecasting Australia Severe thunderstorm warnings are provided to Australia by the . The country is in the middle of an upgrade to systems, with their first benchmark of installing six new
radars reached in July 2006. Bureau of Meteorology Doppler radar [64] Europe The ESTOFEX () project issues one day forecasts for severe weather likelihood and the ESSL () maintain a
database of events. European Storm Forecast Experiment European Severe Storms Laboratory [65] [66] United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, the makes experimental predictions. The
provides official forecasts for the UK. Tornado and Storm Research Organisation (TORRO) Met Office United States In the United States, generalized severe weather predictions are issued by
the , based in. For the next one, two, and three days, respectively, they will issue categorical and probabilistic forecasts of severe weather, including tornadoes. There is also a more general
forecast issued for the four to eight day period. Just prior to the expected onset of an organized severe weather threat, SPC issues severe thunderstorm and tornado watches, in collaboration
with local offices. are issued by local National Weather Service offices when a severe thunderstorm or tornado is occurring or imminent. Storm Prediction Center Norman, Oklahoma National
Weather Service Warnings Other areas In Japan, predictions and study of tornadoes in Japan are handled by the . In Canada, weather forecasts and warnings, including tornadoes, are
produced by the seven regional offices of the , a division of . Japan Meteorological Agency Meteorological Service of Canada Environment Canada Detection Main article: Convective storm
detection A image indicating the likely presence of a over . Green colors indicate areas where the precipitation is moving towards the radar dish, while red areas are moving away. In this case
the radar is in the bottom right corner of the image. Strong show up as adjacent areas of bright green and bright red, and usually indicate an imminent or occurring tornado. When these bright
colors are one against the other on a radar display when in association with rotation, it is called a. Doppler radar tornado DeLand, Florida mesocyclones Tornado vortex signature Rigorous
attempts to warn of tornadoes began in the United States in the mid-20th century. Before the 1950s, the only method of detecting a tornado was by someone seeing it on the ground. Often,
news of a tornado would reach a local weather office after the storm. However, with the advent of , areas near a local office could get advance warming of severe weather. The first public were
issued in 1950 and the first and in 1952. In 1953 it was confirmed that are associated with tomadoes. By recognizing these radar signatures, meteorologists could detect thunderstorms likely
producing tornadoes from dozens of miles away. weather radar tornado wamings tornado watches convective outlooks hook echoes [67] [68] Storm spotting In the mid 1970s, the US
National Weather Service (NWS) increased its efforts to train to spot key features of storms which indicate severe hail, damaging winds, and tornadoes, as well as damage itself and . The
program was called , and the spotters were local , , , , , (now ) spotters, , and ordinary citizens. When severe weather is anticipated, local weather service offices request that these spotters
look out for severe weather, and report any tornadoes immediately, so that the office can issue a timely warning. storm spotters flash flooding Skywarn sheriff's deputies state troopers
firefighters ambulance drivers amateur radio operators civil defense emergency management storm chasers Usually spotters are trained by the NWS on behalf of their respective organizations,
and report to them. The organizations activate public warning systems such as and the , and forward the report to the NWS. There are more than 230,000 trained Skywam weather spotters
across the United States. sirens Emergency Alert System [69] [70] In Canada, a similar network of volunteer weather watchers, called , helps spot severe weather, with more than 1,000
volunteers. In Europe, several nations are organizing spotter networks under the auspices of Skywam Europe and the (TORRO) has maintained a network of spotters in the United Kingdom
since the 1970s. Canwam [71] [72] Tomado and Storm Research Organisation Storm spotters are needed because radar systems such as do not detect a tornado; only indications of one.
Radar may give a warning before there is any visual evidence of a tornado or imminent tornado, but from an observer can either verify the threat or determine that a tomado is not imminent.
The spotter's ability to see what radar cannot is especially important as distance from the radar site increases, because the radar beam becomes progressively higher in altitude further away
from the radar, chiefly due to curvature of Earth, and the beam also spreads out. Therefore, when far from a radar, only high in the storm is observed and the important areas are not sampled,
and data resolution also suffers. Also, some meteorological situations leading to tornadogenesis are not readily detectable by radar and on occasion tornado development may occur more
quickly than radar can complete a scan and send the batch of data. NEXRAD ground truth Visual evidence wall cloud rear flank downdraft June 2 1984 Storm spotters are trained to discem
whether a storm seen from a distance is a . They typically look to its rear, the main region of and . Under the updraft is a rain-free base, and the next step of is the formation of a rotating . The
vast majority of intense tornadoes occur with a wall cloud on the backside of a supercell. supercell updraft inflow tornadogenesis wall cloud [46] Evidence of a supercell comes from the storm's
shape and structure, and features such as a hard and vigorous updraft tower, a persistent, large , a hard anvil (especially when backsheared against strong upper level ), and a corkscrew look
or. Under the storm and closer to where most tornadoes are found, evidence of a supercell and likelihood of a tornado includes inflow bands (particularly when curved) such as a "beaver tail",
and other clues such as strength of inflow, warmth and moistness of inflow air, how outflow- or inflow-dominant a storm appears, and how far is the front flank precipitation core from the wall
cloud. Tornadogenesis is most likely at the interface of the updraft and , and requires a balance between the outflow and inflow. cloud tower overshooting top winds striations rear flank
downdraft [11] Only wall clouds that rotate spawn tornadoes, and usually precede the tornado by five to thirty minutes. Rotating wall clouds are the visual manifestation of a . Barring a
low-level boundary, tornadogenesis is highly unlikely unless a occurs, which is usually visibly evidenced by evaporation of adjacent to a comer of a wall cloud. A tornado often occurs as this
happens or shortly after; first, a dips and in nearly all cases by the time it reaches halfway down, a surface swirl has already developed, signifying a tornado is on the ground before
condensation connects the surface circulation to the storm. Tornadoes may also occur without wall clouds, under flanking lines, and on the leading edge. Spotters watch all areas of a storm,
and the and surface. mesocyclone rear flank downdraft cloud funnel cloud cloud base [73] Radar Today, most developed countries have a network of , which remains the main method of
detecting signatures likely associated with tornadoes. In the United States and a few other countries, stations are used. These devices measure the velocity and radial (towards or away from
the radar) of the winds in a storm, and so can spot evidence of rotation in storms from more than a hundred miles (160 km) away. weather radars Doppler radar direction Also, most populated
areas on Earth are now visible from the (GOES), which aid in the of tornadic storms. Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites nowcasting [71] Extremes Main article: Tornado
records The most extreme tornado in recorded history was the , which roared through parts of , , and on March 18, 1925. It was likely an , though tornadoes were not ranked on any scale in
that era. It holds records for longest path length (219 miles, 352 km), longest duration (about 3.5 hours), and fastest forward speed for a significant tornado (73 mph, 117 km/h) anywhere on
earth. In addition, it is the deadliest single tornado in United States history (695 dead). It was also the second costliest tornado in history at the time, but has been surpassed by several others
non-normalized. When costs are normalized for wealth and inflation, it still ranks third today. Tri-State Tornado Missouri Illinois Indiana F5 [14] [74] The deadliest tornado in world history was,
the in on April 26, 1989, which killed approximately 1300 people. Daultipur-Salturia Tornado Bangladesh [51] A map of the tornado paths in the Super Outbreak. The most extensive on
record, in almost every category, was the , which affected a large area of the central United States and extreme southern in Canada on April 3 and April 4, 1974. Not only did this outbreak
feature an incredible 148 tornadoes in only 18 hours, but an unprecedented number of them were violent; six were of intensity, and twenty-four . This outbreak had a staggering tornadoes on
the ground at the same time at the peak of the outbreak. More than 300 people, possibly as many as 330, were killed by tornadoes during this outbreak. tornado outbreak Super Outbreak
Ontario F5F4sixteen [75] While it is nearly impossible to directly measure the most violent tornado wind speeds (conventional would be destroyed by the intense winds), some tomadoes have
been scanned by , which can provide a good estimate of the tornado's winds. The highest wind speed ever measured in a tornado, which is also the highest wind speed ever recorded on the
planet, is 301 20 mph (484 32 km/h) in the tornado. Though the reading was taken about 100 feet (30 m) above the ground, this is a testament to the power of the strongest tornadoes.
anemometers mobile Doppler radar units F5 Moore, Oklahoma [1] Storms which produce tomadoes can feature intense updrafts, sometimes exceeding 150 mph (240 km/h). Debris from a
tornado can be lofted into the parent storm and carried a very long distance. A tornado which affected in November, 1915 was an extreme case, where a "rain of debris" occurred 80 miles

(130 km) from the town, a sack of flour was found 110 miles (177 km) away, and a cancelled check from the Great Bend bank was found in a field outside of , 305 miles (491 km) to the
northeast. Great Bend, Kansas Palmyra, Nebraska [76] Safety Though tornadoes can strike in an instant, there are precautions and preventative measures that people can take to increase the
chances of surviving a tornado. Authorities such as the advise having a tornado plan. When a tornado warning is issued, going to a basement or an interior first-floor room of a sturdy building
greatly increases chances of survival. In tomado-prone areas, many buildings have on the property. These underground refuges have saved thousands of lives. Storm Prediction Center [77]
storm cellars [78] Some countries have meteorological agencies which distribute tornado forecasts and increase levels of alert of a possible tornado (such as and in the United States and
Canada). provide an alarm when a severe weather advisory is issued for the local area, though these are mainly available only in the United States. tornado watches warnings Weather radios
Unless the tornado is far away and highly visible, meteorologists advise that drivers park their vehicles far to the side of the road (so as not to block emergency traffic), and find a sturdy
shelter. If no sturdy shelter is nearby, getting low in a ditch is the next best option. Highway overpasses are extremely bad shelter during tornadoes (see next section). [79] Myths and
misconceptions , August 11, 1999. This tomado disproved several myths, including the idea that tornadoes cannot occur in areas like . Main article: Tornado myths One of the most persistent
myths associated with tornadoes is that opening windows will lessen the damage caused by the tornado. While there is a large drop in inside a strong tornado, it is unlikely that the pressure
drop would be enough to cause the house to explode. Some research indicates that opening windows may actually increase the severity of the torado's damage. Regardless of the validity of
the explosion daim, time would be better spent seeking shelter before a tornado than opening windows. A violent tomado can destroy a house whether its windows are open or closed.
atmospheric pressure [80] [81] Another commonly held belief is that highway overpasses provide adequate shelter from tomadoes. On the contrary, a highway overpass is a dangerous place
during a tomado. In the of May 3, 1999, three highway overpasses were directly struck by tornadoes, and at all three locations there was a fatality, along with many life-threatening injuries.
The small area under the overpasses created a kind of , increasing the wind's speed, making matters worse. By comparison, during the same tornado outbreak, more than 2000 homes were
completely destroyed, with another 7000 damaged, and yet only a few dozen people died in their homes. 1999 Oklahoma tornado outbreak wind tunnel [82] [79] An old belief is that the
southwest comer of a basement provides the most protection during a tornado. The safest place is the side or comer of an underground room opposite the tornado's direction of approach
(usually the northeast comer), or the central-most room on the lowest floor. Taking shelter under a sturdy table, in a basement, or under a staircase increases chances of survival even more.
[80] [81] Finally, there are areas which people believe to be protected from tormadoes, whether by a major river, a hill or mountain, or even protected by forces. Tornadoes have been known to
cross major rivers, climb mountains, and affect valleys. As a general rule, no area is "safe" from tornadoes, though some areas are more susceptible than others. (See ). supernatural [83] [80]
[81] [21] Tornado climatology Continuing research Doppler On Wheels Attica, Kansas Meteorology is a relatively young science and the study of tornadoes even more so. Although studied for
about 140 years and intensively for around 60 years, there are still aspects of tormadoes which remain a mystery. Scientists do have a fairly good idea of the development of thunderstorms and
, and the meteorological conditions conducive to their formation; however, the step from (or other respective formative processes) to and predicting tornadic vs. non-tomadic mesocyclones is
not yet well understood and is the focus of much research. [84] mesocyclones supercell tornadogenesis Also under study are the low-level mesocyclone and the stretching of low-level which
tightens into a tornado, namely, what are the processes and what is the relationship of the environment and the convective storm. Intense tornadoes have been observed forming
simultaneously with a mesocyclone aloft (rather than succeeding mesocyclogenesis) and some intense tornadoes have occurred without a mid-level mesocycione. In particular, the role of ,
particularly the , and the role of boundaries, are intense areas of study. vorticity downdrafts rear-flank downdraft baroclinic Reliably predicting tornado intensity and longevity remains a
problem, as do details affecting characteristics of a tornado during its life cycle and tornadolysis. Other rich areas of research are tornadoes associated with within linear thunderstorm
structures and within tropical cyclones. mesovortices [85] Scientists still do not know the exact mechanisms by which most tornadoes form, and occasional tornadoes still strike without a
tornado warning being issued, especially in under-developed countries. Analysis of observations including both stationary and mobile (surface and aerial) and (passive and active) instruments
generates new ideas and refines existing notions. also provides new insights as observations and new discoveries are integrated into our physical understanding and then tested in which
validate new notions as well as produce entirely new theoretical findings, many of which are otherwise unattainable. Importantly, development of new observation technologies and installation
of finer spatial and temporal resolution observation networks have aided increased understanding and better predictions. in-situ remote sensing Numerical modeling computer simulations
Research programs, including field projects such as , deployment of (the TOtable Tornado Observatory), (DOW), and dozens of other programs, hope to solve many questions that still plague
meteorologists. Universities, government agencies such as the , private-sector meteorologists, and the are some of the organizations very active in research; with various sources of funding,
both private and public, a chief entity being the . VORTEX TOTO Doppler On Wheels [39] National Severe Storms Laboratory National Center for Atmospheric Research National Science
Foundation See also Find more about on Wikipedia's :tornado sister projects Definitions from Wikibooks from Wikiquote from Wikisource from Commons from Wikinews Textbooks