just above the wrist Swelling Deformity of the arm just above the wrist (increased angulation) Unable to hold or lift object of any significant weight First Aid Reassure the injured person. A
fractured or dislocated hand, finger, or wrist should be placed and splinted in a normal resting position. Rest the fingers around a padded object such as a sock, wadded cloth, or rolled elastic
bandage. If the hand or wrist is injured, place the object in the victim's palm, and use a circumferential wrap to maintain the position of the object. In order for the hand to maintain circulation,
keep the fingertips uncovered. If the victim has a broken wrist, place a rigid splint on the underside of the wrist, hand, and forearm to restrict any motion. Broken fingers can be splinted
independently or taped together with padding in between. Elevate the broken wrist, hand, or finger and place it in a sling. Use an ice pack over the wrist to help reduce swelling. Transport the
victim to an emergency medical facility. DO NOT attempt to move the wrist or hand. DO NOT The hand or the wrist should not be moved. Prevention Exercise to slow or prevent problems
with the muscles, joints, and bones. Eat a with adequate amounts of calcium. well-balanced diet. Remove any obstacles that may cause a person to trip or fall (such as loose rugs). Install
railings or use aids such as a cane or walker to help prevent falls. References Woolfrey KGH, Eisenhauer MA. Wrist and Forearm. In: Marx J, ed. . 6th ed. St Philadelphia, Pa: Mosby Elsevier;
2006:chap 48.RosenCs Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice Provided by Review Date: 7/29/2008 Reviewed By: Thomas N. Joseph, MD, Private Practice specializing in
Orthopaedics, subspecialty Foot and Ankle, Camden Bone & Joint, Camden, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional
should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not
constitute endorsements of those other sites. 1997- A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited