Rincen, Puerto Rico Tourism Attractions Rincon, Puerto Rico is surrounded by things to do, places to go...a myriad of tourism activities! Close by (car trip) is the Rio Camuy Cave Park, the
third-largest cave system in the world. Several Golf courses are in the area. South towards the town of Ponce is the Phosphorescent Bay of "La Parguera. Water Sports abound: from over 20
surfing spots in the area to Sailing, Kayaking, Whale Watching (check for season) and Diving. Dive Tours can be arranged to visit the uninhabited Island, Desecheo", a Federal Wildlife Reserve.
Horseback riding, hiking and of course stunning beaches...more beaches than the average traveler has time to see! For cultural activities theres the historical Porta Coelli Catholic Church built
in 1606 and in Ponce, visit the internationally renowned Ponce Museum of Art. Cuevas de Camuy (Caverns) - 35 miles Rio Camuy Cave Park is the third-largest cave system in the world.
Sixteen entrances have been discovered and 11 kilometers (7 miles) of passages have been mapped to date. One special attraction is the Cueva Clara, which measures 695 feet (210m) in
length. The park is equipped with picnic areas, walking trails, food facilities, an exhibition hall and a souvenir shop, an excellent day trip. Guanica Dry Forrest Reserve - 40 miles This is a
major natural resource. So important, in fact, that is has been designated a World Biosphere Reserve by the U.N. This 1,600-acre forest offers some of the most spectacular beach, hiking and
birding areas (there are over 135 species of birds) in Puerto Rico. Of the 14 hiking trails, one of the most interesting is the hike to the 1,000- year-old lygnum vitae tree. Arecibo Observatory -
35 miles For almost 40 years radio astronomers at the Arecibo Observatory have used this, the world's largest radio telescope, to fathom the sounds of the universe.The site is so impressive
that movie stars and Hollywood producers have used the observatory in various films, most recently in Contact, the film adaptation of the Carl Sagan bestseller that starred Jodie Foster. It was
also the setting of the finale of Pierce Brosnan's first James Bond flick Golden Eye. Porta Coelli Catholic Church - 20 miles This chapel is the oldest Christian religious structure in the Americas,
It was built in 1606 as part of a convent. Mayagtiez Zoo - 6 miles Puerto Rico's main zoo is located in Mayagtiez near the agricultural research station. The site includes 90 acres of tropical
vegetation surrounding a children's park, lake, and islands. The zoo maintains over 300 species of birds, reptiles, mammals and amphibians. Phosphorescent Bay - La Parguera - 30 miles An
excellent night excursion, especially on nights wth no moon. Boats take visitors from the town of "La Parguera to the Bio Luminescent bay to the east. One of the few bio luminescent bays in
the world due to its rare and delicate ecological make up. Ponce Museum of Art - 45 miles Puerto Ricos premier Art Museum built by the Ferre family. A collection of classic, historical and
contempory art much of which features Puerto Rican talent. A must see for art lovers. Located on Ave. Las Americas #2325, Ponce, Puerto Rico. Cabo Rojo Recreational Area - 26 miles

Located on the Southwest corner of Puerto Rico, this towns first church was inaugurated in 1783 with the name of San Jose. The bay at Boqueren, part of the Municipality of Cabo Rojo, extends
some 3 1/2 miles inland, sheltering over a mile of white sand bordered by clear water is wonderful for swimming and lounging. It is excellent beach for swimming. The Cabo Rojo National
Wildlife Refuge, a subtropical dry forest, has a visitors center as well as bird-watching trails, 50 bird species, several endangered. The Cabo Rojo Lighthouse was built in 1881 over limestone
cliffs that drop 200 feet into the sea. It is also known as "Faro de Los Morillos". This old lighthouse was automated and electrically charged in 1967. Spectacular views. Rincen Lighthouse Park
 Located a few minutes driving time from the resort, this Park provides breathtaking vistas of the coast of western Puerto Rico, Desecheo Island, 16 miles offshore, whale watching and of
course stunning sunsets. Park features a snack bar and gift shop. University of Puerto Rico- Mayagiiez Campus - 6 miles ##seeeeeees

** TL ITLTLLII 11 1 2004 Rincen Beach Resort, Afiasco Puerto Rico.