If house is in low-lying area be prepared to move to higher ground. Seek shelter. Do not try to walk through flash floods Avoid driving through flooded areas. If caught there, watch for road
washouts and avoid dips and underpasses. LIGHTNING Close windows and doors and keep away from windows, doors and fireplaces. Don't go outside unless it is absolutely necessary. Before
storm hits unplug appliances including radio, television and computers and do not touch electrical items or telephones during the storm. Do not take a bath (both water and metal are electrical
conductors). Get inside vehicle or building if possible. Avoid water and objects that conduct electricity (eg. golf clubs, umbrellas, metal fences). Do not stay in open space or under tall objects
(trees, poles). If no shelter is available , feet close together with head tucked down. If in a group , keeping people several metres apart.crouch downspread out Remember, lightning victims
can be revived with CPR even though there is no pulse. Stay in vehicle with windows closed. Avoid touching metal parts of vehicle. Do not drive, wait. But don't park under trees or other tall
objects that may fall over in storm. Be wary of downed power lines that may be touching your car. You should be safe in the car but may receive a shock if you step outside. WIND/ TORNADO
 Stay inside with doors and windows shut. Stay away from windows, doors, and exterior walls. Go to a small, interior room or stairwell on the lowest floor of the building (bathrooms are often
best choice). If possible crouch under heavy furniture. Protect your head with cushion or mattress. Seek shelter in a building () immediately. If no shelter is available, lie flat in low dry spot
(ravine or ditch) or under a low bridge. Keep alert for flash floods. Protect your head. As a last resort, hang on tightly to the base of a shrub or small tree.nota car or caravan Do not stay in a
vehicle or caravan, and do not try to outrun tomado by driving, especially in populated areas. If possible run to nearby solid structure (shelter or building). If no solid structure is nearby lie flat
in dry ditch or ravine outside. Keep alert for flash floods. Protect your head. HAIL Stay away from windows and glass doors. Be alert for signs of high winds or tormado (especially if hail is
large) and follow tornado precautions if necessary. Seek cover, face away from wind and protect your head. Be alert for signs of high winds or tornado (especially if hail is large) and follow
tornado precautions if necessary. Keep head and face away from windows. Be alert for signs of high winds or tornadoes (especially if hail is large) and follow tornado precautions if necessary.
 The information presented here is from "" published by the Bureau of Meteorology, Australia in 1995. The Storm Spotters' Handbook ||| ||| I || || | Weather and Warnings Climate
Hydrology Numerical Prediction About Services Registered Users SILO  Commonwealth of Australia 2009, Bureau of Meteorology (ABN 92 637 533 532) Please note the and statements
relating to the use of the information on this site and our site and statements. Users of these web pages are deemed to have read and accepted the conditions described in the Copyright,
Disclaimer, and Privacy statements. Please also note the notice relating to the use of information on this site, No unsolicited commercial email. Copyright