AvP Entry Level Jobs Posted by on Thursday, May 15, 2008 Amy Gordon It was no big surprise that I decided to play volleyball in college. After all, my parents met on the volleyball court, and
my first toy was not a doll or a teddy bear, but a mini Molton volleyball too big to even fit in my hands. When I graduate in a week, I will officially be retired from college athletics. As I enter the
working world in the fall, for the first time in my life, I will be forced to fit volleyball into my schedule, rather than fitting my schedule around volleyball. Unfortunately, in consulting on the
beach means working out of the home office, where volleyball is not an approved activity. Had I known that I could have made volleyball my work and my play, like it is for employees of the , I
may have taken a different career path. It's too bad One Day, One Job wasnLit around during my job search.AVP Bump, Set, Spike It, Thats the Way We Like It For those of you who didnt
grow up with a mini volleyball in the crib, AVP stands for the Association of Volleyball Professionals. Their major endeavor is the AVP Tour which consists of both mens and womens professional
beach volleyball leagues. The matches are a lot of fun to watch, and the sheer athleticism of the players is incredible. Whats even more impressive is that while they train during the week, and
then compete on the weekends. Crocs many AVP players have to work day jobs Entry-Level Jobs You Can Dig Right now, there's only one entry-level job opening listed at the AVP. Its in
Accounting, and it looks just about about right for a new college grad. You can read more about it or by visiting the . If you're interested in applying, you can send a cover letter and resume to
jobs@avp.com. All AVP jobs are located in the Los Angeles area. here AVPs Careers site The other option is cold calling. We know that the AVP has given 7 of their interns full-time offers over
the past 3 years, so that means that the AVP definitely has entry-level job opportunities. They just may not be posted right now (that doesnt mean that they're not available). The looks to be
phenomenal - just look at the (video), so you may even want to consider interning for the summer in hopes of landing a full-time job for the fall. AVPs internship program perks their interns

  

get Links to Help You Begin Your Research