California Beaches photos and travel guide include award-winning pictures of beaches in California, cities, hotels and events. _ California Beaches provide one of the most popular vacations
in the USA. Approx. 54% of the nations population lives within 50 miles of the shoreline, and more people are moving to coastal areas every day. That's why this California beach travel guide
was designed to assist more than 85% of travelers in Calif., who are local residents. It is no mystery why its beaches and cities hold great allurejust stand on the busy Los Angeles beach
during a hot summer day to view the mass of people seeking relaxation and recreation. Pictures & videos of Disneyland, bands, safety tips from top lifeguards, plus a host of resources make
any vacation memorable, happy and safe. Over 450 California beaches offer touristsdiverse landscapes, countless activities & attractions to explore along1,000 miles of the USA's west coast.
Paralleling and sometimes veering away from the Pacific Ocean are flat, sandy expanses and rocky shores. You can surf, swim, sunbathe and take pictures of beaches in California, grabbing a
souvenir photo of a California girl or surfer hanging ten next to the Huntington Beach Pier. Spicing up weekend getaways is easy-~just read this beach travel guide for insider vacation tips. From
bejeweled Santa Barbara to surf crazy Santa Cruz, grape tasters and star gazers can sip a Napa wine, enjoy a celestial view or spot celebrities at Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills. California
Beaches alphabetical list offers a wealth of resources that include videos and pictures of beaches, piers, sunsets, surfers, aerials images and sunbathing information. A vacation guide that
supplies top quality photos and useful information helps you plan your trip with a little help from your friends. We're out there traveling just like you, and the fact that we live in California, too,
helps us offer inside tips you won't find in the other travel guides. California hotel maps & reservations offers pictures of the hotel rooms, resort spas, Indian casinos and more!Make
reservations andbuy attraction ticketsto avoid long lines on your CA Vacation. Winter is the best time to book hotels in California. Prices are cheaper, and there's greater inventory in rooms to
enjoy, especially at beach hotels! California Events: In 2009, favorite events in California include Mavericks Big Wave Surfing Contest Jan-Mar; San Diego's Gaslamp Mardi Gras Feb 24; US
Open Surfing & Beach Games in Huntington Beach Jul 17-26; Imperial Beach Sandcastle Festival July 17-19; and the county fairs (over 50!) Of course we can't wait till winter holidays &
Christmas come again. Attend an event and have fun! Skate champs Scott & Azumi Williams at Redondo Beach's Seaside Ice rink California Theme Parks you won't want to miss include
Disneyland with parades, fireworks shows and parades. We sell tickets to the park, and also SeaWorld, Legoland, Knotts Berry Farm and Magic Mountain attractions. During the winterseason,
special theme park events range from ice shows to Holiday parades. California events like car shows, food fests and outdoor concerts abound. The events calendar contains festivals info, fairs
and fun throughout Calif. Ongoing events include California Kids Vacations beach play grounds, sand volleyball and beach bonfires, a popular activity that brings families & friends together.

The treasure trove of things to see & do includes beach bonfires and our favorite escapes such as Newport Beach, Long Beach or Pismo Beach.  BEACHCALIFORNIA.COM offers over 1000
California beaches and cities such as San Diego, Santa Cruz, Los Angeles, Newport Beach, Laguna Beach and Monterey, through photos and videos. Travelers can purchase a holiday package,
Disneyland vacation or Catalina Island or Alcatraz Island boat tour, We are California travel news publication featuring information, reservations and reviews