Print this page We have five cottages to choose from: They are set well apart from each other in a park like setting. Prices quoted are for 2 people - 2 or more night stays - email for a price.
The Garden $100 per night (Queen bed), A studio cottage right at the back of our section, this cottage is quiet and private. It has an ensuite bathroom, kitchen with a table and chairs, fridge,
microwave, toaster, electric jug, large electric frypan, pot and hotplate, TV and small stereo. The Back $110 per night (Queen bed), A studio cottage also at the rear of our section with a lovely
park like setting. It has an ensuite bathroom, kitchen with a table and chairs, fridge, microwave, toaster, electric jug, large electric frypan, pot and hotplate, TV and small stereo. Also has a two
seat sofa. The Front from $ 120 per night (Queen bed and single bed), A studio cottage with an easy access ramp. It has an ensuite bathroom, kitchen with a table and chairs, fridge,
microwave, toaster, electric jug, large electric frypan, pot and hotplate, TV and small stereo. Also has a two seat sofa. There is a gas barbeque for our guests to use. All cottages have table and
chairs outside for relaxing in the evening. The Batch - from $150 per night (Queen bed and 2 singles) is our slightly bigger cottage with a large lounge with the queen bed at one end and
lounge suite/kitchen table/TV at the other. There is a separate bedroom with the 2 single beds. There is a small kitchen with a standard electric oven/hobs and a bathroom with a shower. There
is a large covered deck out front and a private barbeque on a grassed area beside the cottage with a park area adjacent. We have our Three Bedroom Cottage from $ 220 per night sleeps 8.
Room 1 has a queen bed, room 2 has two single beds and room 3 has two single beds and a set of bunks. There is one bathroom with a shower (no bath) and a separate toilet. The house has a
standard kitchen / dining room and a large lounge. There is a laundry with washing machine and dryer and outside in the enclosed yard there is a three-bumer barbeque and seating for eating
outside. Extra Options