Request new password HP Advances Mini PC for On-the-go Professionals January 6, 2009 --Building on its award-winning portfolio of Mini products, HP today unveiled a new HP Mini designed
for mobile professionals that require a rich computing experience in a small, portable package. The HP Mini 2140 Notebook PC features a simple, refined all-aluminum case for a sleek yet
lightweight design. Starting at 2.6 pounds, the fully functional and durable HP Mini 2140 is an ideal companion PC for the on-the-go professional. It features a large 10.1-inch diagonal
scratch-resistant HP Illumi-Lite LED display available in either standard or high-definition resolutions, a user-friendly 92 percent of full-size QWERTY keyboard, and a range of hard-drive options
including an optional high-capacity 80-gigabyte (GB) solid-state drive. HP continues to enhance its portfolio of Mini products to ensure we offer customers choices that meet their personal
performance and style needs, said Dan Forlenza, vice president, Business Notebook Global Business Unit, Personal Systems Group, HP. The sturdy, lightweight HP Mini 2140 integrates
innovative functionality to keep on-the-move executives connected without weighing them down. The HP Mini 2140 keeps mobile professionals ultra-productive by including a small, low-power
Intel Atom processor to enable the unit to run cooler, use less power and improve battery life. It includes a suite of wireless technologies such as integrated Wi-Fi Certified WLAN and optional
Bluetooth 2.0, allowing a variety of ways to access the Internet for email, instant messaging (IM), chat and blogging. An integrated VGA webcam allows for easy still-image capture,
web-conferencing or video-enhanced IM with no additional hardware to buy or carry. The HP Mini 2140 is also a great tool for the classroom. The suite of wireless, multimedia and security
capabilities allows students to learn wherever they have Wi-Fi access 0 from the classroom, to the library, to their homes. The HP Mini 2140 can change how students learn today and is the
practical answer to providing each student continuous access to a notebook in one-to-one computing. To meet the needs of both mobile professionals and students, the HP Mini 2140
underwent the HP Total Test Process, which included more than 95,000 hours of extensive testing and product validation to ensure designs, materials and components meet the highest
standards. The product is packed with a combination of innovative features to boost productivity and improve the overall mobile experience, including: A large 10.1-inch diagonal LED display
with 16:9 aspect ratio available in either standard-definition (1,024 x 576) or high-definition (1,366 x 768) resolutions. User-friendly 92 percent of full-size QWERTY keyboard and a touchpad
HP Durakeys, featuring a clear coating applied over the notebook keyboard that protects the finish and printed letters and characters. HP DuraKeys offers 50 times more resistance to visible
wear than keyboards without it. HP 3D DriveGuard, featuring a three-axis digital accelerometer chip that sends a signal to shut down the hard drive upon sudden movement or shock. HP
Panel Protection System with a scratch-resistant acrylic LCD cover and magnesium hinge bracket for added durability in demanding environments. Ability to view video, still-image capture, web
conferencing or video-enhanced IM with no additional hardware to buy or carry. The integrated VGA webcam enables video and still-image capture to allow the addition of photos and video dips
to presentations, documents and email. Two battery solutions 0 three-cell for lightest-weight configurations or six-cell lithium-ion battery for longer life. Optional Absolute SoftwareCIs
Computrace, which allows IT professionals to work with local law enforcement to track and help recover stolen or missing computers, inventory computers district wide, and detect changes in
hardware and software. New accessories designed for the Mini include an HP USB Docking Station, USB-powered HP Mobile Audio Speakers and HP USB optical disk drive that can read and
write CD and DVD formats, as well as offer HP LightScribe capability to burn content directly onto discs. A lightweight, functional messenger bag designed specifically for the HP or a neoprene
slip case offer added protection for professionals while on the go. More information on HP Mini 2140 is available at . www.hp.com/personal Pricing and availability The HP Mini 2140 starts at
$499 and is expected to be available later this month. SOURCE HP