Facilities Scientific User Facilities Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) offers scientific researchers access to unique equipment housed in state-of-the-art facilities, and onsite experts
to help visiting researchers take advantage of and make best use of the capabilities. Researchers also have the opportunity to collaborate with world-renowned PNNL scientists and engineers
who can help them advance their scientific research and publish their results. William R. Wiley Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory (EMSL) EMSL is a U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) national user facility currently shared and used by researchers from around the world. Research at EMSL focuses principally on developing a molecular-level understanding of the
physical, chemical, and biological processes that underlie the most critical environmental issues facing DOE. Visit these sites for information about , , or take a of the facility. EMSL capabil
areas of research virtual tour Applied Process Engineering Laboratory (APEL) is an eastern Washington technology business startup user facility, sponsored in part by PNNL. APEL provides
engineering- and manufacturing-scale space and chemical, biological, and electronic laboratories and equipment for developing, validating, and commercializing new products. Entrepreneurs,
engineers, scientists, and university staff can access this facility. PNNL scientists, engineers, and other professional staff are available to APEL occupants for consulting, collaboration, or
professional support. APEL Radiochemical Process Laboratory (RPL) The is a user facility funded by DOE to create and implement innovative processes for environmental clean-up and the
beneficial use of radioactive materials. These processes include those to advance the cleanup of radiological and hazardous wastes, the processing and disposal of nuclear fuels, and the
production and delivery of medical isotopes. RPL New Bioproducts, Sciences, and Engineering Laboratory (BSEL) Located on the Washington State University (WSU) Tri-Cities campus in
Richland, Washington, is a joint effort between WSU and PNNL. Inside the BSEL, researchers are developing technology for converting low-value agricultural byproducts and residues into
value-added chemicals for products like plastics, solvents, fibers, pharmaceuticals, and fuel additives. BSEL Research Facilities PNNL's specialized facilities allow our researchers to address a
broad range of energy, environmental, health and national security issues for a variety of clients. Electricity Infrastructure Operations Center (EIOC) The at Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory brings together industry-leading software, real-time grid data and advanced computation into a fully capable control room. Shaped with input from utilities, technology vendors and
researchers across the Northwest, the EIOC serves as a unique platform for researching, developing and deploying technologies to better manage and control the grid. The new technologies
developed here will be transferable across the industry and address the national need for a more reliable and effective electricity grid. Electricity Infrastructure Operations Center The Marine
Sciences Laboratory (MSL) The , Sequim Marine Research Operations is located on Sequim Bay in Washington's Puget Sound, offers various research capabilities in ecotoxicology, analytical
chemistry, wetland and coastal ecology, fisheries, ocean processes, remote sensing, biotechnology and remediation. Marine Sciences Laboratory's Research Aircraft Facility (RAF) PNNL
operates the to serve atmospheric scientists at DOE and other federal, state, and industrial laboratories in carrying out airborne research. This facility is dedicated to understanding atmospheric
processes as they relate to the DOE's environmental missions and the global environment. Central to this facility is an advanced sampling platform, the PNNL Grumman Gulfstream 159 (G-1)
aircraft and its fight crew, technical and engineering support staff, and state-of-the-art instrumentation. DOE RAF Other PNNL research facilities include: Aerosol Wind Tunnel Research Facility
 Instrument Performance Testing In Vivo Radioassay and Research Facility Non-Destructive Analysis Laboratory Radiological Calibration and Irradiation Facility Guest House Visiting scientist
and collaborators are welcome to stay in our , which is conveniently located on the PNNL campus. The Guest House provides 81 private, comfortable, and affordable rooms within easy walking
distance of most PNNL research facilities. Guest House About PNNL

 

 

ies