Fascia Windows The ultimate in elegance and innovation, GlenGrove's stunning selection of Casement, Awning and Picture windows gives you vast, unobstructed views as well as exquisite
interior and exterior detailing designed to enhance he beauty of any home. Whether used individually or joined together, GlenGrove provides unlimited combinations and designs, custom made
to suit your unique requirements. With positive action, smooth operating geared mechanisms, GlenGrove Casement and Awning windows open and close effortlessly. Plus, thanks to the
multi-Point locking system, triple seal weather-stripping and multi-chambered frame and sash, GlenGrove provides secutity, performance and energy efficiency. All GlenGrove windows are also
glazed with high performance Low-E glass and Premium "S" Class White SuperSpacerTM to ensure you stay cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. With everything it has to offer, from
leading edge technology and high quality to its wide range of style and colours, GlenGrove is your ideal choice for your window on the world. Casement - Awning - Picture Windows more info
>> Double and Single Tilt Sliders Lift Out Sliders, Picture Windows GlenGrove is an inspiration... It is born of an alliance between Canada's major manufacturers who have joined together to
achieve one goal: to create one of the most advanced PVC window systems that meets or exceeds all industry standards. This select group was chosen because only they could meet the
rigorous standards set for GlenGrove Premium Window Systems. With superior quality materials, state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities and cutting edge innovations like the Royal Dura
TechnologyTM process for polymer components, GlenGrove brings product excellence to a new level. Now homeowners can enjoy exceptional performance, beautifully constructed windows and a
warranty that gives peace of mine. Premium features: for a lifetime of care-free performance. Double Hung, Single Hung, Picture Windows 7/8" insulating glass fusion welded comers on
frame and sash die cast lock and closed back keeper night latches block and tackle sash balance system back-locking pivot shoe Warranties: Lifetime Warranty on all solid colour (white and
cream) PVC components against blistering, peeling, flaking, cracking or fading. Painted windows carry a 12-year warranty. On all hardware against defects in material and manufacturing.
Lifetime Pro Rated Warranty On all sealed insulating glass units against seal failure that results in the visible formation of moisture or dirt between the inner and outer panes of glass. Enjoy the
great outdoors right from your porch! Weather Master - Vertical Window System The WeatherMaster Vertical Window System combine the open feeling of a screen room and the comfort and
convenience of a three season sunroom. It does this by utilizing the unique design of the vertical 4-track vinyl window. This window system features View Flex, a durable weather resistant
vinyl, extruded aluminum frames and sashes, stainless steel hardware and fiber mesh screens. All of the windows and screens are custom made and designed to allow you to move any panel

 

 

up or down providing open air ventilation of up to 70% of your window area.