Connecticut's Wage Law behind the times Posted by rhayber on October 20, 2008 The legislature recently passed a law that darified that its wage payment statute requires the mandatory
award of triple damages when and employer fails to pay earned wages. An earlier decision by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court had held that the triple damages provision of the
statute was discretionary. Massachusetts Our legislature should fall into line with the Massachusetts legislature and correct a similar ruling by our Supreme Court. Our provides that an
employee who successfully sues an employer for unpaid wages & Minimum Wage Act &may recover, in a civil action, twice the full amount of such wages, with costs and such reasonable
attorney's fees as may be allowed by the court,& Our Supreme Court and our Appellate Court have held that these double damages and attomeys fees are discretionary, not mandatory: [1]n
an action for wages brought pursuant to General Statutes 31-72, awards for double damages and attomeys fees are inappropriate in the absence of the trial court's finding of Cibad faith,
arbitrariness or unreasonableness.C Matteson v. Great Eastern Development, Ltd., 18 Conn.App. 618, 621, 559 A.2d 1165 (1989), quoting Crowther v. Gerber Garment Technology, Inc., 8
Conn.App. 254, 265, 513 A.2d 144 (1986). Sansone v. Clifford, 219 Conn. 217, 229 (1991). Nowhere in the statute are the words bad faith, arbitrariness or unreasonableness. The effect of
these holdings is that plaintiffs] employment lawyers are dissuaded from taking small wage cases because they might not win their attorneys fees. Of course, employees are similarly
dissuaded from hiring an attorney on an hourly basis to sue for a small wage claim because they might not win reimbursement of those fees. Even the federal law, the Fair Labor Standards
Act, provides more protection on this issue than we do. Under that law, attorneys( fees are awarded to a prevailing employee without a showing of bad faith. Our legislature should step up to
the plate and fill this hole in Connecticut law. Our law is currently less supportive of an employee(s right to sue for unpaid wages than that of the federal government or of Massachusetts. A
new law which clarifies that double damages and attorneysC fees are mandatory is in order. Supreme Court Affirms Vollemans v. Town of Wallingford! Posted by rhayber on October 9, 2008
In yet another victory for employees in Connecticut, our Supreme Court has ruled that the limitations period to file a claim under CFEPA (180 days) &commences upon actual cessation of
employment, rather than notice thereof.C0 . In this case, the plaintiff was told on December 13, 2002 that his employment would end on January 21, 2003. His complaint, which was filed on
June 3, 2003 was initially held to be untimely, even though it was within 180 days of his actual termination date. The Appellate Court reversed and the Supreme Court affirmed per curiam.
Vollemans v. Town of Wallingford This holding departs from Federal jurisprudence on this question, specifically, the cases of , 449 U.S. 250 (1980) and , 454 U.S. 6 (1981), in which the United
States Supreme Court held that the period for filing a discriminatory discharge complaint under Title VII accrues when the employer unequivocally notifies the employee of termination.Delaware
State College v. RicksChardon v. Fernandez This case is yet another example of how ConnecticutUls statutes and jurisprudence can be and frequently are better than similar federal laws (e.g.,
our minimum wage is higher, cf,, we have to prove wilfulness to get attorneys fees under our wage payment law). In fact, Connecticut is in the minority of states that have . More on this topic
in an upcoming blog. rejected the Ricks-Chardon rule Congratulations to Mr. Vollemans and his attomey, John-Henry Steele of Middlefield, Connecticut. Unemployment on the Rise

in Connecticut Posted by rhayber on October 8, 2008 The reported on September 19 that unemployment in Connecticut rose to 6.5% for the first time since 1993. Of course, this is not good
news for employees. More than ever, employees need to understand their rights in the work place, including their rights to unemployment compensation. Here are a few basics: Hartford
Courant 1. If you quit, you are not entitled to unemployment compensation unless you quit for sufficient cause attributable to your employer. 2. If you are terminated, you are entitled to
unemployment compensation unless you committed willful misconduct. 3. If you lose at your first hearing, you can appeal to the Referee and that person will review the case from the beginning
and will not give any deference to the AdministratorOs decision. 4. If you received severance pay and had to sign a release of claims to get it, you can start collecting right away and need not
wait until your severance pay is spent.