News & Events New NH Vehicle Registrations Will Add Improved Technology For Immediate Release Monday, June 23, 2008 Contact: Jim Van Dongen 603-271-2231 New NH Vehicle
Registrations will Add Improved Technology New Hampshire Motor Vehicle offices will soon begin issuing new motor vehicle registrations that include new technology to speed up processing,
improve security and aid law enforcement and inspection stations.Concord, NH: The new registrations carry data that can be scanned with a bar code reader into computers so it does not have
to be copied manually. Plans call for readers to be added to police cruisers to speed up registration queries during motor vehicle stops. "We needed to upgrade printers at DMV and municipal
offices and included these new features as part of that project," said Virginia C. Beecher, Director of Motor Vehicles. "We are working with the State Police, inspection stations, the NH Auto
Dealers Association and municipal officials to implement this new technology." Beecher said the state is providing a total of 564 new printers for municipal offices that issue motor vehicle
registrations and DMV offices around the state. The printers were purchased with a $344,500 federal grant secured through the University of New Hampshire. As part of the project, all
Municipal Agents in the state will be on-line by September. Currently, some Municipal Agents are not on-line. They mail in their paperwork to the DMV, where data must be entered by hand. In
addition to the bar code feature, the new registrations will use special paper and ink to make counterfeiting more difficult. "This major project was developed in-house by DMV employees," said
John J. Barthelmes, Commissioner of Safety. "We are proud of their efforts to save taxpayer money and of the customer service they provide." New Hampshire has 1.4 million registered motor
vehicles. The new registration process will be used for all passenger cars, motorcycles and trucks, including commercial vehicles. It will not be used for boat registrations.