Click here for the new player guide! SFZero: An interface for Lawrenceville. That is to say, a new representation for the data that's already there. Your mind is full of /inaccurate/
representations that are affecting the way you use the Lawrenceville dataflow: steering you away from interaction and collaboration and towards unproductive reflexive data loops (forNext).
SFZero designers are working double-shifts to engineer this next-generation interface that will bring you together with your cohabitants to experience the freedom that is /hard-coded/ into
Lawrenceville's protocol. Frequently Asked Questions A: Yes.Q: Can I Play The Game SFZero Even If I Don't Live In San Francisco? Creating A New Character What does it mean to create a
new character in SFZero? Your character looks exactly the same as you. Your character will have all the same skills and attributes as you, and even the same memories and feelings. "Isn't my
character, just, well, /me/?" Good question. Your character has several important things that you do not have. First, your character has a Score. Its Score is a barometer of its progress. You
may find that your own willingness to interact with the city in new ways varies linearly with relation to your Score. Second, your character will become affiliated with groups that you may or
may not be affiliated with yourself. As you play SFZero, your decisions will determine which groups you are affiliated with. Your character doesn't recognize the artificial boundaries that prevent
non-players from doing what they want to do. Things like fear, lethargy and the police don't deter your character from achieving his or her goals.Last, and most importantly, your character is
able to do things that you may be unable or unwilling to do yourself. Your character never misses a connection - it will get you Score. When you create a character please enter its full name,
email address, the area in which it lives, and its username. You may also enter in the character's sex and physical home address. Although these are optional, they will enhance the game
experience. It will be helpful later on in the game if your character's address and geographic area are the same as yours. At this point you must also chose a group. For more information on
group selection please see the "choosing a group" section of the manual. Your character will receive its own personal web page. This page contains everything that your character has done in
the game. Groups & Grouposis As you play SFZero you will find yourself often working with, sometimes against, the powerful bureaucracies of the BART Psychogeographical Association,
Equivalenz, Humanitarian Crisis, the University of Aesthematics, Biome, the Chrononautic Exploratorium and the Society For Nihilistic Intent And Disruptive Efforts. These institutional
bureaucracies support you by providing jobs, services and formal ideological constraints. They also provide you with a community. You'll never walk alone. In exchange they appropriate your
labor to add to their virtual political capital and fuel their war machines. As you play SFZero your actions will determine which groups you join. Each group has different aims and interests. If
you wish, you may join groups that share your aims and interests. Alternatively, you may join groups that share your character's aims and interests if they are different than your own. It is
important to choose your groups carefully through your praxis. Your choices may have far-reaching implications in your life. Groups control different zones of tasks. Each group task you
complete advances you one rank in that group. Your group rank represents the strength and poignancy of your affiliation, your progression through a particular zone, and your personal
advancement as a real-world-being. is a living map of how you navigate the bureaucracy of desire, graphing the intersection of your individual desire with the desires of the institutional entities
of SFZero.Grouposis Beware: as you conquer ideological zones through Grouposis, so too do the ideological zones conquer you. Additionally, if you play haphazardly, Grouposis will reveal your
secret desires to you. It will also be used by a -funded defense project as a personal compatibility test that deploys compatible spies to track and seduce you. DARPA Playing The Game Play
the game by completing tasks and proving that you have completed them. Log in. Click on the "Tasks" button in the main navigation to see a list of all the tasks in the game. Then dlick on the
link "show only tasks that you can do" to view a list of tasks that you can sign up for. Sign up for one. Do the task. When it's done, dlick on "submit proof" and upload something as proof. Each
task has a point value that will be added to your Score upon completion. You will gain bonus points if you eam votes from other players. Task number 1 is always: upload a picture of your
character. Collaboration Certain tasks require collaboration to complete. In the task details you can see the minimum and maximum number of players required for any given task. If the
minimum is greater than one you must find someone to work together with on the task. When you navigate to the Choose Task page, you can see which tasks are available to you. You can
complete tasks outside your group with the help of friends in other groups.Many tasks will be available to you only through collaboration with your friends. Proving You Did It [Navigating
Bureaucracy] "The pathological striving for pleasure is located in the formal space of duty." You must submit proof in order to earn points from completing tasks. This just means that you
must document what you are doing for the game in any way that feels appropriate to you. Innovative documentation is the key to successfully playing the game. Taking pictures, making audio
or video recordings or writing about what you have done are all acceptable and probably convenient forms of documentation, however, there are no limitations or restrictions on documentation.
You may do it however you please and you'll find that the best documentation format will vary depending on the task. Don't forget: the public life of your character is constituted largely by the
proof you submit. If you fail to document your progress creatively your character will appear inept and foolish to the other residents of Lawrenceville. If the outcome of your documentation is
digital you may submit it via the website. Otherwise feel free to get it to us by whatever means appropriate. In SFZero we refer to completed tasks as :-) genuinely free, self-conscious,
authentic activity as opposed to the alienated labour demanded under capitalism.Praxis "Doing your duty is located in the formal space of pathological satisfactions." Scoring One of the goals
in SFZero is to work your way up from Level 0 to Level 8. Advancing in Level is an incredible, life-altering experience similar to a surprise birthday party or swimming with dolphins. To level up
you must reach a certain predetermined score: Level