Wiktionary is the practice of a or text written in one into another writing system or system of rules for such practice.Transliteration transcribing word writing system From a point of view,
transliteration is a from one system of writing into another, word by word, or ideally letter by letter. Transliteration attempts to be exact, so that an informed reader should be able to
reconstruct the original spelling of unknown transliterated words. To achieve this objective, transliteration may define complex conventions for dealing with letters in a source script which do not
correspond with letters in a goal script. linguistic mapping Transliteration is opposed to , which specifically maps the of one to the best matching script of another language. Still, most systems
of transliteration map the letters of the source script to letters pronounced similarly in the goal script, for some specific pair of source and goal language. If the relations between letters and
sounds are similar in both languages, a transliteration may be (almost) the same as a transcription. In practice, there are also some mixed transliteration/transcription systems that transliterate
a part of the original script and transcribe the rest. One instance of transliteration is the use of an English computer keyboard to type in a language that uses a different alphabet, such as
Russian. Transliterated texts are often used in emails, blogs, and electronic correspondence where non-Latin keyboards are unavailable, is sometimes referred to by special composite terms
that demonstrate the combination of English characters and the original non-Latin word pronunciation: , , , or . While the transcription implies seeking the best way to render foreign words into
a particular language, the typing transliteration is a purely pragmatic process of inputting text in a particular language. The rest of this article concems itself with the first meaning of the word,
that is rendering foreign words into a different alphabet, transliteration . transcription sounds language Ruglish Hebrish Greeklish Arabish in a narrow sense Also, transliteration should not be
confused with , which involves a change in language while preserving . Transliteration performs a mapping from one alphabet into another. translation meaning the word is used to include both
transliteration in the narrow sense and transcription. is a transcription method. encompasses several transliteration and transcription methods.In a broader sense,transliteration Anglicizing

Romanization Contents