Part Time Extra Income :New Jeans Styles in the UK Fashion Europe.net has built a in Europe who earn a Part Time Extra Income as party plan agents. The company is selling fashionable
jeans in Austria, Germany, Holland, Switzerland, and Belgium and is now moving into the UK with a great Part Time Extra Income opportunity for people who want to sell Jeans and other
fashion products as a party plan agent; we are now throughout the United Kingdom for this very fast growing business.network of 13,000 peoplelooking for agents Get a talking e-book on how
to build your own home business!Free First Name: jl: So that you can get your quicker, we give you access to an unlimited supply of Jeans, this allows you to have your own Jeans and
Fashion supply business, and also allows you to build a network of agents and profit from their success. This is an excellent part time extra income and would be suitable for men or women
over the age of 18 years.Part Time Extra Income Most for their look, but it's also imperative that the fit is right and the jeans are comfortable. To find comfortable jeans you have to try them
on. FE.N offer fashionable jeans that everyone loves to own! people want jeans To earn a part time extra income: As an agent you would arrange parties, you would be given all the jeans you
need to have a successful jeans party, your guests at the party will be given the chance to try on the jeans. for jean when you hold a party, the guests will buy what they need from the range
you have on show.You don't have to take orders This has been shown to be a very good way of selling the jeans but the idea of having a party plan to sell jeans has never been done before,
and you can in the UK who earn a great part time extra income. be one of the first agents BENEFITS This business is about selling jeans at parties to get you a part time extra income it's not
about collecting money from party plan agents. You can earn a part time extra income. You will have access to as many jeans as you need to hold your parties. As party plan agents you work
the hours you want to work. You have access to a range of .products that any Fashion Expert would be glad to sell As a new agent you get 30% commission for each pair of jeans sold, and for
every 10 pair sold you get one pair of jeans free of charge to do what you want with. When a host sells five pair of jeans at a party they get the offer to become party plan agents and this will
allow them to purchase all future jeans from their local warehouse at wholesale prices and , if they want to.start to earn a part time extra income