Q: Can we put our fence or deck in property, drainage or utility easments? A: Non permanent structures are allowed in easments but it's a good idea to check your property survey. Q:
What is the hieght limit for my fence? A: 6 ft is the code for residential fence and 8 ft for commercial. Q: How close can I get to the road with a 6 ft fence? A: This varies, you need to check
with your homeowners association and local building codes. Q: Should I put the fence on the property line? A: No, a fence on the property line becomes a common fence with your neighbor, the
fence should be installed 3-6" into your property. Q:How long will my wood fence or deck last? A: This varies on exposure to the elements and how well you maintain them, we recommend
water-seal for all our wood products. Q: How much more is it for composite decking than wood decking? A: A composite deck runs about 30 percent more than wood. Q: How much more is it
for Vinyl fence than wood fence? A: A Vinyl fence runs about 40 percent more than wood. Q: Does Vinyl or aluminum fence last longer than wood fence? A: Yes , most vinyl fence comes witha
lifetime warranty and most aluminum a 30yr warranty. Q: Do you cement the post on all your fences? A: Yes , all post are cemented. Q: Why do you see some wood and vinyl fences and with a
black stain? A: The minerals in your sprinkler system will stain your fence, it's a good idea to keep your sprinklers from hitting the fence. Q What type spacing will I need for my aluminum
fence? A: It depends on your needs. Standard spacing is 3 1/2". If you have a tiny dog, spacing can be as small as two inches. We also would recommend "puppy pickets", where the pickets
drop down below the bottom rail to prevent your dog from going under the fence. Q: Are all aluminum fences just plain straight lines? A: No, there are a variety of different styles. You can
customize to your taste. Open top means the pickets protrude through the top rail and come in assorted styles, i.e. "pressed spear tips, tri-ad finials or quad finials. We can also add "Estate
Scroll" or "Butterfly Scroll" to create that ornate look. You can also choose flat or ball caps for the posts. Q: Does aluminum fencing come in different grades? A: Yes, we offer residential,
guardian, commercial, and industrial grade fencing products. Q: What if I have heavy vegetation in the area where my fence is going? A: Heavy vegetation will need to be cleared out before we
begin work. We can do light trimming. Frequently Asked Questions