Donate Anatomy Here is a brief description of anatomy as it pertains to fetal position. WeLIII go over the mother(Is anatomy and then the babyLIs. To see how they work together during
birth, see The Birth Process in the section on Birth.  MotherJs Birth Related Anatomy A womants birthing anatomy includes soft tissues and hard bones. The bones Fortunately, our bones
are held together by flexible tendons. In pregnancy, these joints become more mobile. Waddling is an example of what happens when these joints get softer. The hormone relaxin helps make
the pelvis a dynamic, flexible passageway. The bony pelvis has four joints. In the front of the pelvis is the symphysis pubis joint. Movement here really isnCit that comfortable. Sometimes a
pregnancy belt holds this joint stable for walking and rolling over in bed. Symmetry in the symphysis pubis (pubic bone) reduces spasm in the round ligaments and helps the sacrum, around
back, to be aligned properly. The symphysis pubis On either side of the sacrum are the SI joints (Sacroilliac joints). These are located where the dimples are. Many plastic baby dolls have
SI dimples above their bum. The SI joints are a common location for aches when the pelvis is weak or crooked. Symmetry in the SI joints will help the sacrum be lined up with the pelvic brim.
Then the baby can get into a nice, head down position. A chiropractic adjustment helps get the symphysis and the SI joints aligned. The sacrum, rather than fused, is slightly mobile and in the
birth process actually moves to allow the head past. The tailbone is connected by a joint to the lower end of the sacrum. Sometimes this needs an adjustment, too, especially after birthing a
baby. Ligaments connecting to the sacrum and tailbone (coccyx) will become more symmetrical and their tone will be more relaxed and less in spasm after bodywork on the pelvis. The soft
tissues The womb is supported by a series of ropes and slings called ligaments and fascia. The ligaments of the womb have a unique mixture of fibrous tissue and muscle cells. The muscle cells
allow the ligaments to become longer during pregnancy so that the ligaments can grow with the uterus. Symmetry of the ligaments helps the womb be held upright. The cervix will be aligned
properly, first aiming back in pregnancy and then, during birth, lined up with the birth canal. Dilation is less painful when the cervix is not held to the side or back by spasming cervical
ligaments. The baby(s head is better positioned with symmetrical ligaments because the lower uterine segment is not in a twist. Some spiraling and leaning to the right is considered normal
for the uterus. But too much lean is not helpful for optimal uterine functioning, including birth. The fascia is a membranous tissue that wraps every muscle, organ and bone in the body. The
fascia moves with the moving body but also seems to store the memory of an abrupt halt. Whether that sudden stop has to do with a trauma or a long-time habit of poor posture, the fascia can
get a wrinkle in it that pulls organs and bones out of alignment or symmetry. Fortunately, craniosacral therapists, myofascial therapists and, to a lesser degree chiropractic adjustments, can
help to release the fascia and so, bring about a greater symmetry of the body. Babys Birth Related Anatomy The fetal head is heavy in comparison to the rest of the baby(s body. The
vertical positions of walking, standing and sitting help the heavy head settle lower than the body during the third trimester, and sometimes in the second trimester. The fetal skull has not yet
hardened and remains somewhat flexible, and moldable, for fitting through the pelvis. There are plates of bone and cartilage that are nearly finished coming together at birth. That nearly
finished margin is what allows molding. These margins are called sutures. The skull plates are held together by a coating for strong fascia. This membrane also wraps down the spine to the
pelvis and legs. The fascia also connects to membranes that support the brain, called the tentorium cerebelli. Which angle the head presses past, or onto, the bony pelvic passageway
determines molding. When the crown of the head enters the pelvis first molding is most efficient. When a plate, rather than the margin between, or sutures, aims into the narrow part of pelvis,
molding takes a long time and does less to reduce the diameter of the babyCIs head. One example of this is the asyndiitic baby. Second stage can take a long time and pushing can be quite
strenuous when a baby is asynditic. The babyCIs shoulders can also mold a bit for the birth process. The shoulder girdle is flexible and many times the shoulders are folded towards the chest
for the actual emergence. Other times one shoulder comes out just ahead of the other in another natural variation to reduce shoulder breadth. References: Holistic Midwifery, Vol. II, Anne
Frye Hands of Love, Carol Phillips The Female Pelvis by Blandine Calais-Germain A New Look at a WomanQls Body by Boston WomensC] Health Collective GrayCs Anatomy by Henry Gray

Your kindness matters! Information about fetal positioning is given freely throughout the many articles of the Spinning Babies Website. Perhaps this information made a difference in your birth.
Perhaps you refer the families you work with to Spinning Babies. Please donate if and when you can. Each occasional donation is a big boost! Copyright 2008 Spinning Babies and Maternity
House Publishing. All Rights Reserved. Do not copy materials on to your site or printed material without permission. Spinning Babies is a childbirth education website.