Aug 3, 2008 From Homer to Saul Williams, poets have sought to engage the "common" people, and to give them voice. Poetry meant to be spoken, sung, or otherwise blended with theatre
has a long tradition of tackling social and political issues. This article explores the history of socially conscious performance poetry. A linked article, , considers common themes and relevance to
the present day. Spoken Word as Revolution In an essay "The Future of Language, poet Saul Williams observes that a Latin transcription of the word person is being of sound. (In Mark
Eleveld's [editor] . Naperville: Sourcebooks, 2003). Williams remarks on practices such as the eastern OM chant, and reciting the Hail Mary prayer, which draw upon the belief that change
will come about through voicing sacred words aloud.The Spoken Word Revolution That is the faith that underlies socially-conscious performance poetry, which traces its origins to ancient times
but which perhaps found its first modern incamation in the early twentieth century. While in America, Harriet Monroe was establishing , poets and artists were emerging in Europe, testing
boundaries of form and meaning partially as a reaction to the First World War.Poetry Magazine Dada Not all performance poetry of a political nature has been on the left-wing or revolutionary
side. For example, Robert Frost read (the gift a metaphor for the history of the United States) at the inauguration of President John F. Kennedy in 1961, and was considered a Kennedy liberal
with an individualist tinge. The Gift Outright But more commonly, performance poets have spoken out for the disenfranchised, or to express criticism of mainstream poetry and their society.
Beat through Hip-Hop to the Present Day Beat poetry may have arisen in part as a reaction to the technique-focused efforts of the , who according to Eleveld had changed the poetic question
from What does it mean to be human now", to "What is a well-crafted poem? Jack Kerouac and the Beats were anti-materialistic, pro-spiritual exploration and critical of the 1950s stereotype
of the perfect family. In Elevelds view, more than any other link to the present-day era, Allen Ginsbergs 1956 Gallery Six Reading of leads into todays performance poetry. New Critics How!
@ Between Beat and modem performance poetry came rapping and hip-hop. Influenced by Jamaican DJ music, the first rappers in the early seventies developed the story-telling spoken word
in the African-American community. Jerry Quickley in the book puts to rest any idea that Hip Hop is not poetry, commenting that it incorporates many of the technical devices of other forms,
including slant rhymes, enjambment, A-B rhyme schemes....[It is] usually parsed in 16-bar stanzas, and generally followed by four-to-eight-bar hooks".Eleveld Slam (often rap or Hip Hop
poetry, performed in competition) appears to have had its American origins in Chicago, was grown by a poetry festival in Taos, New Mexico and has now spread around the world. Quickley
describes the landmark arrival of Saul Williams on the slam scene, with his adoption of the full hiphop style, using human beat box sounds, simulating and miming DJ techniques, and weaving
hardware verbiage and rhyme schemes into poems... In the same book Terry Jacobus comments that slams brought poetry back to the streets in massive doses. The huge popularity of Hip
Hop and slam no doubt helped to create an audience for other types of performance poetry, which first became popular in the 1970s. Laurie Anderson's sound experiments, such as her
successful song, were an early example. Another is a show produced and directed by Jean Howard of the Chicago Poetry Ensemble, which combined poetry with dance, theatre, projection,
lighting, body art, photography, music and sound. The show investigated the historical, sexual and spiritual world of tattooing".O SupermanTattoo, Taboo, More information about the social
and political dimension of performance poetry and the work of present-day performance poets can be found in the Suite article Spoken Word as Revolution. The copyright of the article in is
owned by . Permission to republish in print or online must be granted by the author in writing.Politics and Performance Poetry Art & Society Brenda Ann Burke Politics and Performance Poetry