Industry Commitment Energy & Environment Benefits of Vinyl Home As the material of choice for , vinyl helps to maintain the worldLIs blood supply and supports critical healthcare procedures
such as dialysis. As a, vinyl helps to keep meats and other foods safe and fresh during transportation and on store shelves, and it provides tamper-resistant packaging for food,
pharmaceuticals and other products. Because it will not rust or corrode and breaks far less frequently than alternative materials, vinyl is widely used in water pipes to deliver clean,
safe-to-drink water and in sewer pipes to ensure the integrity of wastewater handling systems. Vinyls resistance to breakdown under high electrical voltage and its ability to bend without
cracking make it the leading material for wire and cable insulation. As an underbody coating on automobiles, vinyl has helped to add years to the life of motor vehicles. VinylCIs toughness and
durability make it the most widely used plastic for applications such as siding, windows, roofing, fencing, decking, wallcoverings and flooring. These are just a few of the myriad, cost-effective
uses of vinyl in everyday life. blood bags and medical tubing packaging material building and construction Vinyl has been used in products for decades without any evidence of harm to human
health. Vinyl is used in medical products such as and in such as meat wrap, bottles and can enamel. These products are regulated for safety by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
According to Bruce Burlington, MD, director, FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), "We believe that IV bags, blood administration sets and other uses of PVC including
dialysis tubing are safe" ( Feb. 22, 1999). Alternative materials may not be available or may not offer the important performance characteristics that vinyl offers for these and other uses. This
point was made by David Feigal, MD, medical deputy director, FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation & Research (CBER), who said, OClwe would need to see a substantial amount of testing to
make sure we weren't moving from a product with good characteristics to one that we don't know very much about" ( Feb. 22, 1999). blood bags and medical tubing food-contact applications
Boston Globe, Washington Post, In another example of its safety, vinyl is used in pipes certified to meet American National Standards Institute/National Sanitation Foundation Standard 61 for
safe use in drinking water service. Over the past several years, vinyl production has risen while environmental releases associated with production and disposal have fallen. This is due in part
to the fact that vinyl has been regulated for decades, ensuring that workers, local communities and the environment are protected at each step in the life cycle of the material and the products
made from it. Just as important, the vinyl industry instituted its own to improve manufacturing efficiencies and reduce emissions 0 extending the impact of government efforts even further.
The vinyl industry supported strict federal standards for incinerators that are now being phased in. voluntary programs For more information, visit www.vinylinfo.org ||| | |
laboutbluevinyl.org