From the October 2008 Bobcat Worksaver Equipment elevates business to new level Lawn maintenance is replaced with challenging landscape endeavors Landscaper Peter Marra built his
business with dependable Bobcat tool carriers and attachments. Peter Marra has moved on to landscaping ig stageaccompanied by a cast of Bobcat@ products ix hard-working compact
loaders, a smooth-operating compact excavator and more than 20 versatile attachments. f it wasn for Bobcat equipment, I don know where we would be,says the Manchester, Conn., landscape
contractor. hese machines have improved our business 100 percent./P> Today, Marra and his 16 employees take on landscaping jobs ranging from the Hotchkiss School, a prestigious boarding
school in Lakeville, Conn., to $3 million homes on the shore, or new homes for upscale builders. hen I first started 28 years ago, I couldn even dream of doing these types of projects,he says
After focusing on mowing lawns and smalll landscaping jobs for a decade, Marra purchased his first Bobcat loader in 1990. When some customers wanted him to do more landscaping, Matra
looked for an easier way to move soil and mulch. was always a tractor guy,says Marra. uying that first 763 loader was the hardest decision I ever made. Once I got the Bobcat loader on the
job, I quickly discovered it was the greatest machine I owned. I wish I would have had it sooner. It changed the way we worked forever/P> Complete landscaping capabilities Working in both
the residential and commercial markets, Marra has the equipment to handle landscaping jobs from start to finish, from rip-outs to site preparation, to seeding and plant installation. Among his
Bobcat machines are a and two compact track loaders, a compact excavator, three 763 skid-steer loaders, and a group of attachments, including landscape rake, auger, seeder, hydraulic
breaker, stump grinder and angle broom. All were purchased from Bobcat of Connecticut. T300 T190 337 Once I got the Bobcat loader on the job, I quickly discovered it was the greatest
machine I owned. Marra added track machines as his workload increased. he T300 and T190s allow us to not only work a longer season but to become a complete landscaping company,Matra
says. ow we can do our own site preparation. The T300 with the Bobcat dozer blade attachment does an excellent job grading, backfilling and shaping landscape areas. With the T190s we can
work in tight quarters and in difficult soil conditions./P> For Marra, breaking away from being a mowing-only business to providing complete landscaping services revolves around his Bobcat
equipment. he key was finding out what Bobcat machines can do,he says. here is not a landscaping job we cannot do with our loaders, excavator and attachments whether it moving a
thousand yards of topsoil, grading, leveling, or digging trenches, sewer lines and small foundations./P> Precise work calls for Bobcat compact excavator Another Bobcat track machine that
Marra relies on is the 337 compact excavator, which regularly delivers powerful digging performance. very time we use it, we are amazed by what it can do,says Marra. or example, on one job
we had to remove several tree stumps that measured about 4 feet in diameter. The excavator took them right out of the ground no problem./P> The smooth controls of the 337 have also
impressed Marra. e can do very precise work, including placing boulders and other landscape materials. It a joy to operate this machine, and it very productive./P> Go online to read more
about Bobcat compact equipment designed for the landscaping market at . www.bobcat.com/landscaping At one time, when Kevin and Katherine Foley looked at architect's specifications, they
knew they were unlikely to get the job. Their company, Liberty Landscapes, just didn't have the right equipment. From the Summer 2006 Bobcat Worksaver Landscapers Adjust to New
Playing Field Rules Today it's an entirely different story for the South Windsor, Conn., firm. "We don't turn down the opportunity to review any blueprints because we know our Bobcat
equipment can handle the work," says Kevin. "Our three T190 compact track loaders and our 331 excavator have allowed us to take on many new jobs. In fact, thanks to these machines, we
have doubled our business the past eight years." Kevin and Katherine Foley also operate Liberty Farms, a site that includes a 5-acre nursery with an overhead irrigation system." Liberty
Landscapes specializes in large scale sites, especially athletic fields for municipalities, high schools and colleges. The eight-employee company offers one-stop service. "After the general
contractor eliminates the site vegetation, we typically do the rest of the job," says Katherine. "That usually includes grading, drainage, irrigation, field preparation, sod or seeding, planting trees
and shrubs and putting down mulch." LGP Now Standard Architects are now writing specs that require LGP (low ground pressure) machines for most athletic fields. "A maximum of 5 psi
ground pressure is now the standard," says Kevin. "Anything over that is not acceptable. They don't want to see any type of compaction. In fact, architects, athletic officials and coaches are
constantly scrutinizing our work. The Bobcat track machines allow us to satisfy their demands. The Foleys purchased all their Bobcat equipment from Bobcat of Connecticut. The T190s are
1,900-Ib. rated operating capacity units that provide superior traction and excellent flotation. The 331 excavator, which is used to install drainage and irrigation systems, is a real time-saver
with its 16-ft. reach and 10-ft., 2-in. digging depth. They also own a 773 skid-steer loader, which is used for working on asphalt. Liberty Landscapes relies on three T190 compact track loaders
to help prepare sites for athletic fields Liberty Landscapes also relies on several Bobcat brand attachments to increase productivity, including a set of pallet forks, a pair of augers, trencher,
grader, landscape rake and the Hydra-TiltTM swing accessory for the excavator. "They have made us much more efficient," says Kevin. "For example, the landscape rake does the work of three
employees with rakes. Also, we eliminated a lot of manpower by using the auger to dig holes for trees and pallet forks to move materials." From the soccer field at the University of Connecticut
to dozens of municipal and school venues, the Foleys enjoy watching people playing on what they created. "It's a great feeling to see all the activities taking place on our product," says Kevin.
 Category: