(] edit Early life Patrick was a player in high school, becoming an all-state selection his senior year. He attended on a basketball scholarship for two years before transferring to the , where he
joined the fratemity. He has two sisters, Molly and Anne, and three brothers. basketball Ohio [] citation needed Easter Kentucky University University of Dayton Phi Sigma Kappa [] citation
needed [] edit Before ESPN Before working with ESPN, Patrick was known by his real name, Dan Pugh, as an on-air personality with the album rock-formatted in , Ohio (1979-1983). Patrick
was then a sports reporter for (1983-89), where his assignments included the , and . From 1989 1995 Patrick did a daily sports segment for , a syndicated Wisconsin-area morning show, and in
the early 90s he did sports updates for the Columbus, Ohio Rock Station and appeared on the morning show "Wags and Elliot." WTUE Dayton CNN World Series NBA Finals Winter Olympics Bob
and Brian WLVQ [] citation needed [] edit Career at ESPN Patrick was an anchor on 's (1989 2006). He also hosted on from September 13, 1999 to August 17, 2007. Starting on , , until the
final game of the , he became the host of then-titled , a pregame show for the network's . ESPN SportsCenter The Dan Patrick Show ESPN Radio March 19 2006 NBA Finals ABC's NBA Nation
NBA telecasts ESPN announced on July 9, 2007 that he would be leaving the network in August 2007. Patrick s final radio show was broadcast on Friday, August 17, 2007. The mutual
agreement allowed Patrick to pursue new interests outside of ESPN and brought to an end his involvement with ESPN s radio, television and magazine outlets. In the mid-1990s, Dan and were
among ESPN's most recognizable faces. Olbermann used the "Welcome to the Big Show" when Patrick worked with him on . After getting reprimanded by their superiors, they began saying ""
sarcastically, accidentally spawning the show's new catch phrase. When Olbermann left, Patrick said, "This isn't the Big Show anymore." Keith Olbermann catch phrase SportsCenter This is
SportsCenter [] citation needed [] edit "En fuego" Patrick told about the following at the ESPN25 Silver Anniversary Spectacular. In , when calling the highlights for a game in which described
as being "on fire," Dan Patrick said he was "el fuego", which he thought was for "on fire. A few months later, he received a letter from a Spanish teacher in Pennsylvania suggesting that he say
that athletes are "en fuego" (on fire) rather than "el fuego" (the fire). Since then, Patrick has used "en fuego" on certain occasions when a player is said to be "on fire. Patrick has used the
phrase to describe many athletes such as Kobe Bryant, Lebron James, Jeff Reed, and Eric Rosenthal. Patrick started using the "en fuego phrase because he believed the standard "on fire"
phrase had become . 1994 Marv Albert Sam Cassell Spanish clich [] edit Departure from ESPN/ABC On July 9, 2007, Patrick on his radio show announced his departure from / effective August
17, 2007, stating, "I am leaving ESPN August 17 to go out on my own and be a free agent...I think I was starting to take it (ESPN) for granted," Patrick said. He said tried to talk him out of it.
If there were any animosity, he says, "I wouldn't be sticking around until August." ESPN ABC ESPN Patrick remained off air from until August 15 for his three farewell shows. He was originally
reported to be returning for a final week, but returned on Wednesday of that week. ESPN Radio [1] ESPN's statement released to the media said that Patrick would be released from his
contract August 31, 2007, exactly one year early from his deal that was to run until August 31, 2008. The statement also said this would be the final comment on Patrick's departure from
ESPN. "ESPN contractually bans all employees from making specific announcements of their futures on their airways, but out of respect to Dan and all he's done for ESPN we allowed him an
opportunity to end the speculation". [] edit Reaction to Patrick's departure from ESPN/ABC Reaction from media sources hit the internet by storm. Many webpages, blogs, and news media
outlets have speculated on the reasons for Patrick's departure and possible future. On July 10, 2007's , Keith Olbermann and Dan Patrick himself put some of the rumors and comments to rest,
The Dan Patrick Show Patrick confirmed that he was asked by the producers of to audition for the vacant host position, but he declined. The job eventually went to . Patrick admitted that he
was hurt when good friend, writer wrote that, "Patrick was making one of the top 5 biggest career mistakes in entertainment history," ranking right under 's leaving and 's leaving . The Price is,
Right Drew Carey Sports Illustrated Rick Reilly Shelley Long Cheers Katie Couric NBC Keith Olbermann stated that it was only a matter of time before a website claimed that Patrick was fired
from ESPN as was falsely reported of Olbermann. Patrick again stated he was leaving on good terms with ESPN and that he could return to ESPN if he would so choose. Patrick said that he
wants to be on both television and radio again although some newspapers were reporting he only wanted to do radio. [] edit Last shows August 17, 2007 was Dan Patrick's last day on ESPN
Radio. He named his final three shows the "Farewell for Now" tour. The last 20 minutes of his show were filled with thank-yous and looks back. Guests included , , , , and other sports stars. also
made a heavily promoted appearance as . Bob Costas Bobby Knight Joe Montana Jerry Rice Ken Griffey, Jr. Will Ferrell in character Ron Burgundy [] edit New Radio Show/Sports Illustrated
Main article: The Dan Patrick Show Patrick signed a syndication deal with Chicago-based Content Factory, which soon launched his new version of on , . It is distributed nationally by . The show
airs live on most stations from 9 a.m. to noon Eastem, although some opt to delay the show into the evening. The show runs delayed on on Sirius Radio channel 122 and XM Radio channel 143.
It is also available as a live stream and in podcast form via Patrick's website. The Dan Patrick Show October 1 2007 Premiere Radio Networks Sirius XM Sports Nation In January 2008, Dan
Patrick's show replaced Out of Bounds with Craig Shemon and James Washington on Premiere Radio's network. This brought an additional 60 affiliates to Patrick's portfolio, and brought the
total affiliate count to over 200. It also allows XM Radio listeners to hear the show live on the Fox Sports simulcast on channel 142, in addition to the delayed broadcast on channel 143. Sirius
doesn't carry Fox Sports Radio. Fox Sports Radio also announced in October 2007 that Patrick would become the magazine's senior writer. He would also contribute blogs to SI.com's "Fan
Nation" and host the magazine's show. SI collaborates with Content Factory to produce Patrick's web site, and helps stream his radio show. Patrick said he will produce non-television content
exclusively for . Sports Illustrated Sportsman of the Year Sports Illustrated [2] [] edit NBC Sports On July 7, 2008, it was announced that Patrick would join as a co-host of the inaugural
season of with former co-anchor every Sunday night beginning in September. Patrick and Olbermann host a series of highlights on the show and a segment called "The Little Big Show" with the
day's top NFL plays. Patrick served as the Super Bowl XLIII trophy presenter after the Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the Arizona Cardinals. It was the most-viewed Super Bowl and second-most
watched American TV event according to Nielsen ratings. NBC Sports Football Night in America SportsCenter Keith Olbermann [3] [4] [] edit Other appearances [] edit Movies and television