Photoshop: How To Make An Awesome Grungy Paper Texture From Scratch Posted inJune 25, 2008| Photoshop | Many of you might remember my I gave away a while back. I had a lot of
requests for a tutorial on how I actually made those textures, so I here we are. Fire up good ol Photoshop, have a scanner handy, and lets dive in, shall we :) Free High-Res Grungy Paper
Textures Step 1: Scan Get a natural-brown-colored piece of paper (or brown paper bag), give it a good crinkle, then flatten it back out and scan it in. After you scan, take your image into
Photoshop, where we'll be the rest of the tutorial. After you get your image into Photoshop, you should have something similar to below. If you dont have a scanner to download the image I'm
using from Flickr if you'd still like to follow along. click here Step 2: Add Texture First, we're going to add a little texture to the paper itself. With your image layer selected, go toFilter >
Texture > Texturizer. from the drop down menu, set the to around , and the between , then Click OK.Select Canvas"scale100depth2 and 4 You should now see something like below: (full size
close-up) Now we have a canvas-like texture, but it only goes in one direction. I like to get the grain going both horizontally as well as vertical, so go to to rotate your image.Image > Rotate
Canvas > 90 CW Now that your image is on its side, we're going to apply the texture again, this will give us the grain going in both directions. So go back to , and apply the same filter again,
or just key Command + F (Control + F, PC) to repeat the filter Filter > Texture > Texturizer Now that we have our texture in both directions, lets rotate our canvas back so its vertical again
(Or you can leave it horizontal if you need to, doesnt matter. Image > Rotate Canvas > 90 CCW Step 3: New Layer Now it's time to start grunging it up. Make a new layer on top of your
paper texture, and fill () it with a color: (hex) #451300. Heres an image you can download if you'd like to just use the eyedropper tool:Edit > Fill After you fill your layer, take its opacity to
around 70% You should be able to see your paper texture peeking through. Now change the layer mode to Soft Light. When you change the layer mode, it will lighten up quite a bit, but will
be noticeably darker than the original texture below: Step 4: Erase We're going to use a high resolution brush to erase parts of our new layer and leave the comers a little grungy. For this, I
like to use my . Hi Res Splatter Brushes After you get these brushes installed, , then select one of the brushes in the High Res Splatter set as your tip shape.select the Eraser tool In the
Photoshop Toolbar (top left), set the of your Eraser to , and the toOpacity70%Flow60% Now, with the splatter brush tip eraser, start chipping away (erasing) at your top layer, leaving the
comers looking stained or dirty. Concentrate on the middle section while erasing. (more advanced users should erase the layer mask for a non-destructive way to get the same results) And
you should end up with something like this: Step 5: Repeat That's a start, but we need it to get quite a bit grungier before we call it quits. (on top) and with the color below. (hex) #371C11
Set the , and the Make a new Layerfill itlayer opacity to 90%layer mode to Multiply After you do all this, repeat the last part of Step 4. Use the eraser, and a High Res Splatter brush tip to
erase until you get something like this: Step 6: Repeat Again That's a step closer, but we're not done yet. (on top) and with the blue color below. (hex) #0078A4, Set the , and the .Make
another new Layerfill itlayer opacity to 65%layer mode to Soft Light The only thing we're going to do different this time is change the and of theOpacityFlowEraser tool to 30% After you do all
this, repeat the last part of Step 4. Use the eraser, and a High Res Splatter brush tip to erase until you get something like this: (You might notice how tha blue layer makes the other 2 layers
quite a bit darker. Its subtle, but noticeable) Step 7: Add Some Details If you want to add a little extra to your grungy paper, you can always spice things up with some cool Photoshop
brushes. Download and brush sets and install/load them. Botched Ornaments SS-Handwriting Create a for your brushes, set the , , and select one of the Botched Omaments brushes. Set the
foreground color to (Hex) #A43A00.new layerlayer mode to Multiplylayer opacity to about 50% This part is really up to you but I just put a botched ornament in the bottom left comer, and the
top right. Here's a close-up: Now lets add some old-fashioned handwriting, shall we, Make a, set the , , and set the . Now Load the SS-Handwriting brushes and .new layerlayer mode to
Multiplylayer opacity to about 48%foreground color to (Hex) #54316select a brush to use I just put a little handwriting in a couple different places. Here's another close-up: Done! Here's the
final result folks. Click on the image to download it via Flickr if you'd like to add it to your stock folder :) I hope you enjoyed the tutorial. Related Posts: