Click Here for Pricing Description - Western Red Cedar Split Rail has proven more weather-resistant than Pine, Spruce, and Hemlock. Cedar also resists insect infestation. Western red cedar
wood has a distinct color which left uncoated will weather to a silver gray color. Cedar split rail fence is very rustic in appearance. Each rail and post come in a slightly different size and shape.
For the customers who prefer a uniform and consistent low-maintenance fence, we strongly suggest considering this product in vinyl. Red Cedar rail is available in a two rail (approx. 36" high -
) anda three rail (approx. 48" high - ) style. Click here for information. specs specs Rails are 10' long and butt inside the posts to make approximately 10! post centers. - Cedar split rail fence
is one of the most cost effective styles for defining boundaries, decorating property, and fencing in livestock and horses. Split rail fencing is also one of, if not the easiest style of fence to install
making it an ideal project for the do-it-yourselfer. Posts are typically set directly in the ground approx. 30" deep without any concrete. A is used to compact the dirt around the post while
backfilling Advantages tamping bar - Itis typical to have to retamp posts plumb after the ground settles around post so that the fence remains upright. This is especially true if the fence is
installed in a wet area or it was wet when the fence was originally installed. Pouring gravel around the posts instead of backfilling with dirt will help prevent posts from leaning under the heavy
weight of the rails. Fence requires a preservative for the longest-lasting performance, however most installations are never treated.Disadvantages Small Gate About Western Red Cedar Split
Rail Gates: Smaller pedestrian size gates are made entirely of wood; they are available in widths 3', 4', x and 5' wide. A cross brace is installed (as pictured left) to help prevent sag. Typically
these gates hang on red cedar posts with standard wood gate hardware (sold separately). Pricing for wood gates will be found with the other western red cedar materials here. Large Gate
wood gates are challenging since wood as a building material has its limitations. For these gates, we have designed a custom welded galvanized tubular frame to mount the wood to. The
structural frame allows for larger widths, 5', 6', 7', 8', and 9' widths are available. You may use two gates for double gate widths up to 18' wide! The split rail material is mounted for aesthetic
purposes to match the fence. 3" or 4" 0.D. round posts are commonly used for hinge and latch posts to support the weight. Chain link type hinges or barrel hinges are often used for hardware.
More information on these gates may be found .Larger here 3-Rail Western Red Cedar Split Rail Fence Hoover Fence Company Installation - Click Images to Enlarge! More Customer's
Photos - Click Images to Enlarge! C:\fencecom\public_html\hooverfence\server-side\fencecom-footer.htm.