Sewing machines and sewing supplies SewingLessons.com is here to provide information for its visitors on sewing kits, sewing machines, and other sewing supplies. Sewing, or stitching, is a
valuable skill that has been around since Paleolithic times, more than 32,000 years ago. In addition to its impressive age, it has also been a nearly universal practice in human civilization
Sewing entails fastening flexible materials such as cloth, furs, leather, and even bark with a needle and some thread. It is most commonly used for clothing and household needs, but is also
useful for such things as sails, satchels, and art or design projects. Many people still sew by hand from time to time. However, most industrial sewing is completed through the use of a sewing
machine. This useful piece of machinery was developed during the Industrial Revolution. At that time, many were interested in looking for ways to lessen the amount of manual sewing which
clothing companies required at that time. The invention is attributed to an Englishman named Thomas Saint in the year 1790. However, though he was the first to patent a design, a working
model was never built. His machine concept was intended to be used on leather and canvas. The French inventor Barthelemy Thimonnier was the creator of the first functioning sewing
machine. Together with Auguste Ferrand, who was a mining engineer, he got a patent issued for his design on July 17, 1830. That very same year, he opened the first machine-based clothing
manufacturing factory with some select partners. The emphasis of the company was to manufacture military uniforms. Unfortunately, the factory was burned down. This was purportedly done
by workers who were afraid of losing business due to the issuing of the machine's patent. Thimonniers machine used a chain stitch to sew straight seams. The first lock stitch machine was
developed in 1834 by an American inventor named Walter Hunt. About ten years later in 1845, Elias Howe, another American inventor, patented a machine which was an improvement upon
Hunt's design. The first sewing machine patented in the United States was created by John Greenough in 1842. The man most strongly associated with the sewing machine was Isaac Merritt
Singer. Of course, by the time he started becoming interested in the sewing machine, it had been invented at least four times over. His focus was on creating a more efficient design, and he
succeeded. Both Elias Howe and Isaac Merritt Singer died as multi-millionaires. A variety of sewing supplies exist as either sewing necessities or simply sewing aids for both sewing machines
and traditional hand products. A basic sewing kit will include such things as scissors, standard thread colors, needles, pins, a cushion, a seam ripper, buttons, and some form of measuring
device. A small-scale sewing kit is useful while traveling, to aid with any accidents which may damage clothing. Of course, such a selection of sewing supplies is also simply useful for sewing fun
stuff, Please browse the other sections of this site to learn more about sewing supplies. In addition to that, our site includes a wide variety of free sewing lesson information to help visitors get
started with sewing projects.