Titin isoform switching is a major cardiac adaptive response in hibernating grizzly bears and Yiming Wu,3 Henk Granzier3,4 Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
School of Biological Sciences and Department of Natural Resource Sciences, and Veterinary Comparative Physiology and Pharmacology, Washington State University, Pullman, Washington; and
Molecular Cardiovascular Research Program, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Atizona1234 Submitted 4 March 2008 ; accepted in final form 21 May
2008 The hibernation phenomenon captures biological as well as clinicalinterests to understand how organs adapt. Here we studied howhibernating grizzly bears ( tolerateextremely low heart
rates without developing cardiac chamberdilation. We evaluated cardiac filling function in unanesthetizedgrizzly bears by echocardiography during the active and hibernatingperiod. Because
both collagen and titin are involved in alteringdiastolic function, we investigated both in the myocardium ofactive and hibernating grizzly bears. Heart rates were reducedfrom 84 beats/min in
active bears to 19 beats/min in hibernatingbears. Diastolic volume, stroke volume, and left ventricularejection fraction were not different. However, left ventricularmuscle mass was significantly
lower (300 + 12 comparedwith 402 + 14 g; = 0.003) in the hibernating bears,and as a result the diastolic volume-to-left ventricular musclemass ratio was significantly greater. Early ventricular
fillingdeceleration times (106.4 + 14 compared with 143.2 +20 ms; = 0.002) were shorter during hibernation, suggestingincreased ventricular stiffness. Restrictive pulmonary venousflow
patterns supported this conclusion. Collagen type I andIII comparisons did not reveal differences between the two groupsof bears. In contrast, the expression of titin was altered bya significant
upregulation of the stiffer N2B isoform at theexpense of the more compliant N2BA isoform. The mean ratio ofN2BA to N28 titin was 0.73 + 0.07 in the active bearsand decreased to 0.42 + 0.03
(= 0.006) in the hibemnatingbears. The upregulation of stiff N2B cardiac titin is a likelyexplanation for the increased ventricular stiffness that wasrevealed by echocardiography, and we propose
that it plays arole in preventing chamber dilation in hibernating grizzly bears. Thus our work identified changes in the alternative splicingof cardiac titin as a major adaptive response in
hibematinggrizzly bears.Ursus arctos horribilis)PPP collagen; bradycardia; diastolic function; echocardiography olnelson{at}vetmed.wsu.edu