It's a kinda magic in Bayonetta/ It's a kinda magic in Bayonetta Bayonetta is ready to cast her magic on you with an exhilarating action title which takes a trip into gothic fantasy. Expect an
exotic show of swords and sorcery... Style - it's something Bayonetta is full of, even with a mere glance over its colourful visuals. Developed by Platinum Games alongside Sega, this is a flashy
action adventure which is directed by Hideki Kamiya, creator of the Devil May Cry series. Which means you're in for a ride which involves lots of gung-ho blasting, outrageous acrobatics and a
fantasy setting full of angels, demons and other otherworldly beings. Bayonetta 101 The game's title is the name of its lead heroine, Bayonetta - a sassy witch who slays monsters in a huge
variety of ways thanks to handguns, guns in her shoes, swords, and magic. While not much of the game's story has been revealed yet, it promises plenty of spectral beasts to try these
weapons on. That's not the only surprise hiding in Bayonetta's catsuit. In fact, her clothing itself is the surprise, in more ways than one. Rather than being made out of a more typical material
such as leather, her uniform is actually created from her rather long hair. In turn, her flowing locks can be used for special attacks. These spectacular assaults range from powerful fists, to
transforming Bayonetta into a giant demon capable of biting the larger mini-bosses you'll encounter in half. Throw in an array of slow motion bullet time sequences, combination moves that can
mercilessly juggle your opponents in the air before they touch the ground, the ability to conjure even more incredible ways of dispatching foes (such as creating a makeshift guillotine to put
them in) and finishing moves and you have an outlandish combat system which is bound to leave you agape. Where there's a witch, there's a way While there are platform sections to
traverse, Sega's game has a strong focus on its memorable action sequences that aim to empower and impress you given the sheer visual and conceptual extravagance of it all. To compliment
that, the set pieces and gothic environments are equally lavish. One such set piece sees Bayonetta faces off against a dizzying numbers of angelic styled enemies while standing on top of a
broken clock tower falling through the Earth's atmosphere. As you battle, the setting changes from space into an ominous sky, while bits of the disintegrating structure force you into daring
leaps from piece to falling piece. All this while avoiding silver dragons which have joined the angels' offensive. It's fast and energetic, designed to make sure you never take your eyes off its
blistering arcade style action - and there's plenty more to come. Expect Bayonetta to be am exciting name on your lips as it casts a spell of adult fantasy action and gunplay on PLAYSTATION 3
~ and you - soon. Screenshots