Christian Dutilleux Christian Dutilleux is a journalist and documentary filmmaker who has lived in Rio de Janeiro for the past twenty years. He is a specialist of contemporary Brazil. His book
Lula is the first biography of Brazil's current president... Lulas diplomacy confirms Washington's loss of control over South America, at the risk of spawning in tum fears of Brazilian hegemony.
Not so, says the author, who is banking on a revival of South American integration. Why are the South American Heads of State only now starting to meet to talk about regional integration two
centuries after our countries gained their independence? Barely ten years ago our main concern was still knowing who amongst us was the best friend of the president of the United States.

ESo spoke Brazil's president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva at the opening of the second meeting of the Heads of State of the South American Community of Nations (CSAN) that took place in
Cochabamba, Bolivia, on 8-9 December 2006. Lula, who was the linchpin of this integration initiative launched in December 2004, wants to overcome the region's opposition to change and old
territorial disputes between neighbouring countries, the 19th century problems that keep us from thinking in the 21st century. Upon taking power in 2003 the Brazilian president engaged in a
flurry of diplomatic initiatives, notably with South Africa, India, Russia, China, and the Arab countries, as a result of which Brazil signed a rash of agreements, doubled its exports over four
years, and gained new international stature. Brazilian troops command the peacekeeping force in Haiti and Brasilia is eying a permanent seat on the UN Security Council. The future of this
intense diplomatic activity depends in large part on Brasilias relations with its neighbours. A united South America would constitute the world's fifth power, one that would ultimately be able to
play a key role in certain world markets such as the energy market, due to the strong growth of local oil, gas, and biodiesel production, amongst other things. The regional leaders are already
considering the possibilities of a single regional passport and currency, even South American citizenship, around 2020. GapsA wonderful dream that is far from reality, for the region's
countries have been trying to unite for decades, without much success. Before consolidating the South American Community of Nations, the Member States will have to incorporate the many
existing organisations into this community, for example, the Andean Community, Amazon Co-operation Treaty, Mercosur, and Rio Group. The South Americans also take part in some very
Pompous Summits of the Americas with the United States and Canada (but without Cuba) and Iberian-American high masses with Spain and Portugal (this time with Cuba). And let us not
forget that the peoples of the region also have the feeling of belonging to a Hispano-Caribbean-American community and of living in a Portuguese-speaking world in the case of Brazil and a
Spanish-speaking world for the others. At the end of the day, South America has no true political or even cultural identity. The South Americans do not identify with their subcontinent, despite
the fact that its geographic unity is clear as day when one looks at a map of the world. To understand this gap between geographic reality and cultural identity, one must go back to the 19th
century. With Brazils independence and the Spanish colonial empire's break-up, the countries in the region freed themselves willy-nilly from the yoke of the European powers. Only in 1856 did
the idea of a Latin America make its first appearance. Curiously, the term was coined in Paris by a certain Torres de Caicedo. This exiled Colombian poet, who was influenced by
pan-Latinism (an idea in vogue in Paris at the time), saw Latin America as a subdivision of the Latin world. This notion, which became a hit in the Hispanic world, long remained unknown to
both Brazil (which still finds it hard to consider itself a Latin American country, even today) and the United States. The latter waited until 1920 to replace the term Spanish America with Latin
America in official parlance. At the time, no one even raised the idea of South America as a political entity. The Monroe Doctrine of 1822, which proclaimed America for the Americans, long
served as a justification for numerous US actions and intervention throughout the continent. The regions main priorities were often set in Washington - until "9/11", i.e., 11 September 2001.
Since the attacks, the United States has become obsessed with tracking down Islamist terrorists and the wars in first Afghanistan, and then Iraq, neglecting in the process a region that it long
considered its backyard, At the same time, a new generation of South American presidents, generally placed on the left of the political spectrum and keen to establish their independence from
the United States, has come to power in the region. Actually, the Latin American left is surreptitiously shifting from ancestral anti-Americanism to pragmatic management without the
Americans. The most striking example of this is doubtless Argentina and Brazil's repayment of their IMF loans in 2006. The International Monetary Fund, the emissaries of which even recently
would arrive looking like viceroys ready to dictate the rules of good management, found itself sidelined: It has nothing to say to those who no longer owe it anything. Another sign of the
change in regional geopolitics is that the United States has not intervened in the numerous squabbles that have flared up between neighbouring countries over the past few months
(Argentina-Uruguay, Peru-Venezuela, Bolivia-Brazil, etc.). In fact, not a single political leader has even asked Washington for advice! Finally, even when Venezuela's Hugo Chavez launches into
his diatribes against Bush as the Devil, reeking of brimstone, the US administrations reaction no longer makes anyone quake.From domination to negligence So, without Uncle Sam's
burdensome shadow, regional co-operation has accelerated. In reaction, some Latin American intellectuals are already voicing worries about the purported dangers of Brazilian imperialism.
For the smalll countries, such fears regarding the continents giant - the most populous, richest, and most developed (at least in some of its regions) country in South America ~ are founded
However, Brasilia has neither the intention nor a tradition of crushing its neighbours, as the tragicomic nationalisation of Bolivias oil and gas sector shows. Last 1st May Bolivias president Evo
Morales nationalised the countrys gas, oil, refineries, and gas pipelines by decree. The army occupied 56 cil installations and raised the Bolivian flag atop the Brazilian company Petrobass
refineries. In the past, the pictures of such a spectacle would have filled the company shareholders hearts with fear, moved chancelleries, and doubtless triggered a virulent reaction from
Washington. Many governments have fallen and blood flowed in the course of Latin Americas history for much less than that. However, this time the Bolivian coup de force took on the airs of
an operetta with outdated refrains, for if such a hue and cry is to spark emotion, you need a sizable enemy, as when La Paz nationalised Standard Oil's assets in 1932 or confiscated Gulf Oil's
properties in 1966. At the time these American firms had become veritable states within the state and bridgeheads of Washington. But what do you say when the main invader this time is a
Brazilian company, and a state-owned one to boot, a company whose boss was appointed by Lula, whom Morales himself considers his elder brother, and Lula and the entire Brazilian left
defend Bolivia's right to control its natural resources? After many twists and turns the Bolivians succeeded in renegotiating the oil companies contracts so as to guarantee 82% of the operating
income for La Paz instead of the previous 50%. This means an additional 300 million dollars a year, which will enable the Bolivian State to balance its accounts. Still, Morales could doubtless
have got the same result without giving investors the image of an unpredictable government. In fact, pragmatism is the order of the day. The group of South American presidents is giving
priority to the subcontinents physical integration through the building of 300 major infrastructure projects (roads, bridges, gas pipelines, dams, and so on), at an estimated cost of US$30
billion. Of course, this initiative is still in the declaration-of-intentions stage, and a number of NGOs and social movements are already rising up against this vision of regional unity that puts
major engineering projects before social and cultural needs. Still, it means that the debate about South Americas future has finally begun.Brazilian imperialism? DUTILLEUX Christian, ,
Flammarion, Paris, 2005, 300 pages. PICKARD Jacky (Ed.), , Karthala, Paris, 2004. ROUQUIE Alain, , Fayard, Paris, 2006, 409 pages. VAN EEUWEN Daniel (Ed.), , Editions de I'Aube, La Tour
dAigues, 2006, 349 pages.For more information on the subject: Lula Le Bresil de Lula. Les defis dun socialisme democratique a la peripherie du capitalisme Le Bresil au XXIe siecle.
Naissance d'un nouveau grand Le Nouveau Bresil de Lula