Main article: Nutrition are defined in several different ways.Macronutrients The humans consume in the largest quantities are , , , , , and . chemical elements carbon hydrogen nitrogen oxygen
phosphorus sulfur The classes of humans consume in the largest quantities and which provide bulk energy are , , and . and atmospheric also must be consumed in large quantities, but are not
always considered "food" or "nutrients". chemical compounds carbohydrates proteins fats Water oxygen , ( and ), , and (along with phosphorus and sulfur) are sometimes added to the because
they are required in large quantities compared to other vitamins and minerals. They are sometimes referred to as the . Calcium salt sodium chloride magnesium potassium list of
macronutrients macrominerals The remaining vitamins, minerals, or elements, are called because they are required in relatively small quantities. micronutrients [] edit Substances that provide
energy are that consists of the joined by . The body cannot manufacture some of the (termed ); the diet must supply these. In , proteins are through by back into free amino acids. Proteins
organic compounds amino acids peptide bonds amino acids essential amino acids nutrition broken down digestion proteases consist of a molecule with three attached. Fatty acids are
unbranched chains, connected by single bonds alone () or by both double and single bonds (). Fats are needed to keep functioning properly, to insulate body organs against shock, to keep body
temperature stable, and to maintain healthy skin and hair. The body does not manufacture certain fatty acids (termed ) and the diet must supply these. Fats glycerin fatty acids hydrocarbon
saturated fatty acids unsaturated fatty acids cell membranes essential fatty acids Fat has an content of 9 kcal/g (~37.7 ki/g); and 4 kcal/g (~16.7 k3/g). () has an energy content of 7 kcal/g
(~29.3 ki/g). energy proteins carbohydrates Ethanol grain alcohol [1] [] edit Substances that support metabolism are generally trace elements, salts, or ions such as copper and iron, Some of
these minerals are essential to human metabolism. Dietary minerals are organic compounds essential to the body. They usually act as or for various proteins in the body. Vitamins coenzymes
cofactors is an essential nutrient and is the in which all the chemical reactions of life take place. Water solvent [] edit Nutrients and plants Main articles: and Plant nutrition Fertilizer The strip
of a green alga () along this shore indicates that there is a nearby source of nutrients (probably nitrates or ammonia from a small estuary). Enteromorpha The chemical elements consumed in
the greatest quantities by plants are, , and . These are present in the environment in the form of and ; energy is provided by . , , , and are also needed in relatively large quantities. Together,
these are the elemental for plants, often represented by the CHNOPS. Usually they are sourced from inorganic (e.g. , , . , ) or organic (e.g. , , ) , although elemental of nitrogen and (especially)
oxygen are often used. carbon hydrogen oxygen water carbon dioxide sunlight Nitrogen phosphorus potassium sulfur macronutrients acronym carbon dioxide water nitrate phosphate sulfate
carbohydrates lipids proteins compounds diatomic molecules Other chemical elements are also necessary to carry out various life processes and build structures; see and for more information.
fertilizer micronutrient Some of these are considered macronutrients in certain organisms. The acronym C. HOPKIN'S CaFe Mg (to be used as C. Hopkins coffee mug) is used by some students
to remember the list as: Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, Phosphorus, Potassium (Kk), Nitrogen, Sulfur, Calcium, Iron (Fe), and Magnesium (Mg). Silicon, chloride, sodium, copper, zinc, and
molybdenum are sometimes also included, but are in other cases considered micronutrients. Oversupply of plant nutrients in the environment can cause excessive plant and growth. , as this,
process is called, may cause imblances in population numbers and other nutrients that can be harmful to certain species. For example, an can deplete the available for fish to breathe. Causes
include from or from farms (carrying excess agricultural fertilizer). Nitrogen and phosphorus are most commonly the in growth, and thus the most likely to trigger eutrophication when
introduced artificially. algae Eutrophication algal bloom oxygen water pollution sewage runoff limiting factor [] edit Essential and non-essential nutrients Main article: Essential nutrient
Nutrients are frequently categorized as essential or nonessential. are unable to be synthesized internally (either at all, or in sufficient quantities), and so must be consumed by an organism
from its environment. Essential nutrients For humans, these indude , , , and certain . and are also essential for human survival, but are generally not considered "food" when consumed in
isolation. essential fatty acids essential amino acids vitamins dietary minerals Oxygen water Humans can derive energy from a wide variety of , ,, and , and can synthesize other needed amino
acids from the essential nutrients. fats carbohydrates proteins ethanol Non-essential nutrients can still have a significant impact on health, whether beneficial or toxic. For example, most is not
absorbed by the human digestive tract, but is important in digestion and absorption of otherwise harmful substances. Interest has recently increased in , which include many non-essential
nutrients which may have health benefits. dietary fiber phytochemicals Donatelle, Rebecca J.2008. . Benjamin Cummings,Health: The Basics, 8th edition ISBN 978-0321523020 Whitney,
Elanor and Sharon Rolfes. 2007. . Wadsworth PublishingUnderstanding Nutrition, 11th edition ISBN 978-0495116868 Coyle EF. 1995, Fat metabolism during exercise. Sports science exchange
8(6):59-65 *