The spring hunt application deadline is Oct. 14 Enjoy National Hunting and Fishing Day events Small Game, Big Fun: 2008-09 small game hunting outlooks Phoenix schools receive chance to
win a wildlife habitat NPS to waive fees for Lake Mead and Lake Mohave this Saturday Fall outdoor hunting activities just for the kids Dusky Iuegrouse range expanded to Mogollon Rim by
Game and Fish Information needed to solve bull elk poaching near Williams Come refine your fishing skills at Camp Trout Learn more about recreating in Arizona great outdoors Fenske
receives award from national boating safety organization Coming to a sporting store near you: non-lead ammunition displays Want to learn how to hunt tree squirrels? The spring hunt
application deadline is Oct. 14 Hunters, it time to spring into action the deadline to apply for spring hunts is headed your way on Tuesday, Oct. 14 (the day after Columbus Day). Don
procrastinate any longer. The spring hunt application process is for javelina, bearded turkey, bear and buffalo. Don forget, there is something new this coming spring we have over-the-counter
non-permit turkey tags for youth. Arizona Game and Fish Department officials pointed out that it is once again a manual application process for the spring hunts there is NO online application
process available. Biologists pointed out that the terrific reen uplast spring coupled with the abundant rainfall this summer should equate to a good year for javelina. The excellent mast crop in
the high country this year bodes well for turkey populations. Spring hunt regulations should be available at all license dealers statewide, or stop by any of the seven Arizona Game and Fish
Department offices in the state. The applications and regulations can also be downloaded from the department Web site at . Don miss out! www.azgfd.gov/draw  Enjoy National Hunting and
Fishing Day events Arizona outdoor enthusiasts have the opportunity to participate in several events this weekend in celebration of National Hunting and Fishing Day on Sept. 27. The Arizona
Game and Fish Department is partnering with the Tucson Sportsman Warehouse store, 3945 W. Costco Drive, on the following events: Thursday, Sept. 25, 7-8 p.m. Seminar on lassing for
Wildlife.br> Friday, Sept. 26, 7-8 p.m. ids Night Outkids can catch fish from the huge catch-and-release tank, try their skill on the laser shot simulator, and more. Saturday, Sept. 27, 9 a.m. to
3 p.m. Mini-Expo Bring the family for free food, catch-and-release fishing from the big tank, and the opportunity to visit with various sportsmen/conservation groups. In Phoenix, the
department will staff several booths, including a live wildlife display from the Adobe Mountain Wildlife Center, and information from the Operation Game Thief program, at the Phoenix
Sportsman Warehouse store from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 27. The store is located at 19205 N. 27th Ave. in Phoenix. Also in Phoenix, the department will have an informational
booth celebrating National Hunting and Fishing Day and the North American Model of Wildlife Management at the National Public Lands Day event at South Mountain Park on Saturday, Sept. 27.
In Mesa, a National Hunting and Fishing Day and National Emergency Preparedness Day celebration will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 27 at Bass Pro Shops, 1133 N.
Dobson. Activities include a free catch-and-release fish tank, kids safety finger painting, community preparedness seminars, and visits with hunting and fishing pros and conservation groups.
The department Hunter Education program will have an information booth. In Glendale, a National Hunting and Fishing Day celebration will be held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, Sept.
27 at Cabela, 0380 W. Glendale Ave. Visitors can try the free catch-and-release fishing area and see hunting dog demos, Dutch oven cooking demos, wildlife calling demos, and the wildlife
creature exhibit. The department Hunter Education program will have an information booth. National Hunting and Fishing Day was signed into law in 1972 by President Richard Nixon to
celebrate the contributions hunters and anglers have made toward wildlife management and conservation. For more information, visit the Department National Hunting-Fishing Day Web page.
 Next commission meeting is Oct. 10-11 in Phoenix The next meeting of the Arizona Game and Fish Commission is scheduled for Friday, Oct. 10 and Saturday, Oct. 11, at the Arizona Game
and Fish Department headquarters at 5000 W. Carefree Highway in Phoenix. Friday portion of the meeting begins with an executive session at 8 a.m., followed by the public meeting. Items on
Friday agenda include: An update on progress toward the director goals and objectives for 2008. Request for the commission to approve a Notice of Docket Opening and a Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking to amend Article 6 rules, addressing rules of practice before the commission. A department briefing to the commission on the department involvement in Mexican wolf
reintroduction in Arizona and New Mexico and related Mexican wolf recovery and conservation issues. Request for the commission to approve the Article 1 Five-Year Rule Review Report on
definitions and general provisions for filing with the Governor Regulatory Review Council. Hearings on license revocations for violation of Game and Fish codes and civil assessments for the
illegal taking and/or possession of wildlife. Saturday portion of the meeting begins at 8 a.m. Items on Saturday agenda include: Request for the commission to adopt the department proposal
for commission order 40 (the fish orders), establishing open seasons, open areas, and bag and possession limits for calendar year 2009 and 2010. Request for the commission to adopt the
department proposal for commission orders 25 (raptors), 41 (amphibians), 42 (crustaceans and mollusks), and 43 (reptiles), establishing open areas, season dates, and bag and possession
limits for 2009 and 2010. A department briefing to the commission on the cost estimates to move the Adobe Mountain Wildlife Center to the Deer Valley South property and the costs for
individual animal enclosures. The commission may vote to take action on, or provide the department direction on, the above items and other items on the agenda. For a complete meeting
agenda, visit and click on the ommission agendalink. www.azgfd.gov/commission Small Game, Big Fun: 2008-09 small game hunting outlooks This is the year! Set your calendar for a week
earlier than past years. Small game season for quail, squirrel, ducks and more opens Friday, Oct. 3. Abundant snow and rainfall has occurred since the end of 2007. Much of the precipitation
fell at the right times and in the right areas. In short, plenty of water, ground cover and food made for good reproduction. The outlook for small game hunting statewide looks very good
Although Gambel quail populations were low last year, the amount of rain this spring and summer will increase their populations and should offer some fair to very good hunting, depending on
where you hunt. Scaled quail populations overall should be fait. Rainfall in southeastern Arizona was not as abundant as the central portions of the state. However, there are reports that some
areas have favorable populations of scalies. Mearnsquail season doesn open until Nov. 28. Last year proved to be a great year, and this year should prove to be just as good for these high
country birds.Quail : Every hunter should be able to put a rabbit in their bag this year, as populations are good to excellent throughout the state. Although the season is all year long, many
consider opening day the same as quail season. Hunting washes, edge cover and glassing from ridges can be very productive. Bag limits are liberal and the meat is excellent.Rabbit : Mark this
as the year to be excited about squirrels. The season runs until the end of December now. If youe finding young birds when quail hunting opening weekend, mark your spot for later and head
north for some exciting tree squirrel hunting action. Adults are reminded that this hunt isn just for the kids. Try taking one with a .22 handgun for a challenging shot. Hunters should enjoy
hunting conditions that rate from fair to good, and some spots will be excellent.Squirrel_: The waterfowl season is liberal, opening in the mountain zone the same day (Oct. 3) and running until
the end of January 2009. However, canvasback ducks are not allowed for harvest due to declining numbers, and there is a shorter / restricted season for scaup ducks (see regulations for all
season dates). Depending on the timing of the migration, Arizona has plenty of water to hold waterfowl during the season, and this year has the potential to be a very good duck
season.Waterfowl While all this news is exciting, the best thing about small game season is no draw. Hunters can pick up a general hunting license, buy some shotgun shells and hit the road.
By the way, don forget that kids 13 and under can hunt for free with no license (two max.) when accompanied by a licensed adult 18 and older. And for hunters ages 14-20, the youth
combination hunting and fishing license is only $26.50. For complete details on the small game outlook and where to hunt, visit the Arizona Game and Fish Department . Small Game, Big Fun
Web page Phoenix schools receive chance to win a wildlife habitat Wildlife habitats promote conservation, enhance learning and encourage community involvement, and now all Phoenix
schools have a chance to compete for a fully installed habitat worth up to $10,000. Schoolyard Habitat Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to bringing a wildlife habitat to every
K-12 school in Maricopa County, recently announced the third annual Schoolyard Wildlife Habitat Contest. The contest is open to all K-12 Maricopa County schools. The contest winner will
receive a habitat that combines the elements of food, water, shelter and space arranged to meet the needs of wildlife. An organic water feature will attract and sustain a variety of fish, birds,
and beneficial insects. Native trees, shrubs, and plants will provide shelter, food, and nesting spaces for birds, reptiles and insects. According to the National Wildlife Federation, a schoolyard
habitat presents many teaching and learning opportunities in science, biology, English, mathematics, history, geography, philosophy, social studies, and art. The Arizona Game and Fish
Department provides judges for the independent jury panel. For contest rules and information, visit the Schoolyard Habitat Foundation. Entries must be submitted by March 1, 2009. NPS to
waive fees for Lake Mead and Lake Mohave this Saturday This Saturday, Sept. 27, all entrance fees into Lake Mead National Recreation Area will be waived in honor of National Public Lands
Day. In addition, fees will be waived for newly naturalized citizens on Sept. 28. Nine federal agencies, 125 state and local partners, dozens of non-profit organizations, and tens of thousands
of individuals are expected to participate in more than a thousand volunteer projects across the country. One-third of the land in the United States has been set aside as open space. About 600
million acres of parks, refuges, forests, wetlands, cultural sites, and other shared areas provide a variety of public resources. National Public Lands Day is the only time that entrance fees are
waived systematically on public lands throughout the country. Normally, 147 of the country 391 National Park Service sites charge entrance fees ranging from $3 to $25. The other 244 areas do
not have entrance fees. Please visit The National Public Lands Day for more information. The other federal agencies not charging for admittance that day include the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the U.S. Forest Service. _ Fall outdoor hunting activities just for the kids See Arizona unique wildlife and reconnect with nature Javelina, turkey
and sandhill cranes - oh my! It may not be exactly like the famous Wizard of Oz quote, ions and tigers and bearsbut to many it still invokes a sense of mystery and adventure. In an effort to
get kids into a natural environment and to increase their awareness of the importance of hunting as a wildlife management tool, the Arizona Game and Fish Department has created a number
of youth programs to introduce kids to the outdoors. Participating in hunting and fishing is America original outdoor challenge. Starting this fall there are three hunts available to young
hunters ages 10-17, induding: . There are two hunts to choose from, Oct. 10-16 and Nov. 21-30. There are a number of hunting areas to choose from. However, tags are limited and must be
obtained by submitting an application by mail; for details, visit . Javelina are unique to the Southwest, with a wide distribution in Arizona. Javelina offer an excellent introduction to the skills
needed for other big game hunting like deer and elk. As for edibility, they make very good chorizo breakfast sausage, Italian and bratwurst sausages, as well as roasts and stews.Juniors-only
fall javelina big game hunt www.azgfd.gov/draw . There is one hunt Oct. 3-9. Tags are unlimited and can be purchased over-the-counter for $10 at any department office. There are a number
of open hunting areas, including some areas around Flagstaff, the White Mountains and the North Kaibab. Wild turkeys inhabit the forested highlands of our state. Wild turkeys are similar to
domestic birds, but leaner, so don overcook and youl be treated to a Thanksgiving family feast to be proud of.Juniors-only fall turkey big game hunt . There is one hunt Dec. 12-14 in the
southeastern part of the state. Tags are limited and must be obtained by submitting an application by mail; for details, visit . Sandhill cranes are large (5-foot wingspan), spectacular birds,
which closely resemble a terradactyl. They migrate to the state and winter in wetland areas. They are very wary birds and are challenging to decoy within shooting range, making for an
amazing hunting experience. Most surprising is they provide incredible table fare, often referred to as he flying rib-eye steak.The department will have check stations with mentors and guides
to offer help.Juniors-only sandhill crane hunt www.azgfd.gov/draw For instructions on applying for javelina or sandhill crane tags, visit and find the hunt number of the area you wish to hunt
from the list of left-over fall hunts and/or the left-over list for sandhill cranes. Fill out the unt Permit/Tag Application Formper the instructions and mail it to: Arizona Game and Fish Department,
P.O. Box 52002, Phoenix, AZ 85072-2002. www.azgfd.gov/draw Young hunters ages 10-13 are required to have completed a certified hunter education course to hunt big game (javelina and
turkey). All youth hunting big game are also required to have a general hunting license. There is no hunter education requirement to hunt sandhill cranes, although it is encouraged.
Additionally, youth hunters 10-13 do not need a general hunting license when accompanied by a licensed adult when hunting sandhill cranes. Many families that have relocated to Arizona
came from rural families who used to hunt. But now in Arizona, they are in unfamiliar country and not sure how to, nor do they have the network of friends and other family members they did
in their hometowns. To change that, the department is reaching out to the public to introduce them to hunting in the Southwest through workshops, clinics, check stations and online
information. For more information about hunter education, licenses and hunting in Arizona, visit the Game and Fish Department Web site at . www.azgfd.gov Dusky Iuegrouse range
expanded to Mogollon Rim by Game and Fish Chicken-sized bird offers upland hunters and bird-watchers a unique opportunity The dusky luegrouse population and range are increasing in
Arizona due to recent translocation efforts by the Arizona Game and Fish Department to offer upland hunters, bird watchers, and outdoor recreationists another area to enjoy this unique bird.
Over a two-week-long effort, Arizona Game and Fish biologists, wildlife managers and interns worked tirelessly in the field to capture 20 birds near Moab, Utah, and then 12 more from the
North Kaibab Plateau in Arizona. Thirty-two blue grouse in total were captured, banded, and some fitted with transmitters, and then released near the Rim Lakes on the Mogollon Rim. his first
translocation went very well,said Ron Day, small game, predator and furbearer biologist for the Arizona Game and Fish Department. any thanks go to the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources,
who allowed us to capture grouse from their state. Utah has a much more robust dusky grouse population, and we were able to capture a lot of birds in a short time.br> Dusky grouse,
previously referred to as blue grouse, are the second largest of the grouse family. Males can weigh up to 3 pounds. They are a dusky blue-grey color and, like most grouse, exhibit the broad
fan-tail with a distinctive band across the feathers. Their habitat consists of subalpine mixed conifer forests of Douglas fir, spruce, aspen and grassland meadow areas for foraging. Before this,
translocation, blue grouse could only be found on the North Kaibab Plateau, the highest peaks of the White Mountains, and a very limited range atop the San Francisco Peaks. ur research
determined this area of the Mogollon Rim has a large amount of contiguous mixed conifer habitat that is very suitable for grouse,says Day. ur goal is to bring this unique bird into sustainable
populations to offer sportsmen and wildlife watchers a closer location to enjoy these birds.br> In the second year of a five-year effort to expand the range of the blue grouse to this region,
additional translocations may involve up to four different release sites and, when established, should provide for sustainable populations for years to come. The project is funded through the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Wildlife Restoration Program, which generates its funding through excise taxes on firearms, ammunition, archery equipment and arrow components and then
apportions the funding to state wildlife agencies. However, grouse hunters should note that Unit 4A and 5A are closed hunting areas. There is no hunting allowed in the area of a translocation
for five years after the last transplant date. For example, if this were the last translocation, these birds could not be hunted until 2013. Also, turkey hunters in Units 44 and SA are cautioned
to be certain of their target. Blue grouse look very similar to a young turkey. For future hunters, the prospect of hunting this challenging bird and then taking in some trout fishing on the
Mogollon Rim will be well worth today efforts. Science-based translocation programs follow the North American Model of Wildlife Conservation and are designed to increase diversity of wildlife
populations throughout the state and beyond to the benefit of all citizens. __ Information needed to solve bull elk poaching near Williams The Arizona Game and Fish Department is asking for
the public help in finding a poacher that killed a large bull elk sometime during the weekend of Sept. 6. The poaching occurred near Scholz Lake and Garland Prairie along Forest Road 141, just
east of Williams. The elk was shot with archery equipment and was left in the field to waste. The poaching took place a week prior to the opening weekend of the legal archery elk season. A
field investigation also discovered that the animal had been shot several times in the head. Game and Fish officials believe that someone may have come across the wounded elk and put the
animal down by shooting it. his is a blatant example of poachersdisrespect for wildlife, and the laws and seasons that are established to protect our wildlife resources,says Wildlife Manager
Mike Rice. e need help from the public to catch the poacher. If you were in the area recently, please try to recall anything you might have seen or heard, or any conversations you may have
had. Maybe someone doesn realize he or she has the key to solving this case. Poaching of wildlife is considered a major loss for the residents of Arizona and our wildlife resources. Anyone with
information about this poaching can call the department Operation Game Thief hotline toll-free at (800) 352-0700. Callers may be eligible for a reward of up to $350 in this case. All calls may
remain confidential upon request. Come refine your fishing skills at Camp Trout Want to learn how to fly fish with a fly rod or a spinning rod? If so, youl want to come to CAMP TROUT, which
is a unique trout fishing program being conducted by the Arizona Game and Fish Department in conjunction with the White Mountains Fly Fishing Club at Becker Lake in the White Mountains on
Saturday, Oct. 4. The 3hour program will feature one-on-one instruction on the use of lures and artificial flies to improve angling success. articipants will be able to choose from and rotate
between a slate of learning activities, each led by an experienced instructor,says Bruce Sitko, spokesman in the department Pinetop regional office. here will be two sessions, one in the moming
and one in the afternoon, with a 20-person limit per session. So don delay in signing up./p> Training will be offered in fly-fishing techniques, proper use of trout lures and presentation, use of
casting bubbles with flies and trolling techniques. There will be demonstrations on fly tying and methods of cooking and smoking fish. Resource materials and handouts will be provided, as well
@ ttendees are encouraged to bring their own equipment, but wel have plenty of specialized gear for folks to try out,adds Sitko. his program is about hands-on learning, asking questions, and
being with others who are also interested in fishing in Arizona./p> The program cost is $10, and interested parties must pre-register through the Pinetop office. Becker Lake is located adjacent
to Springerville in the White Mountains, immediately south of U.S. Highway 60. For more information on the workshop, call the Pinetop office at (928) 367-4281. With the water levels up at
most mountain trout waters, this is an excellent time to refine your trout fishing skills. Don miss out. Learn more about recreating in Arizona great outdoors Hands-on workshop will teach
the core basics of camping, fishing and hunting Are you new to Arizona or would you like to learn more about how to participate in the exciting outdoor recreational opportunities that the
state has to offer? The Arizona Game and Fish Department is hosting a weekend campout at Cataract Lake in the Coconino County Campground near Williams from Oct. 4-5. The workshop is
targeted at residents that are new to Arizona, and families and individuals who want to learn hands-on the basics of camping, fishing, hunting, how to prepare fish and game, and other outdoor
activities. The workshop will begin at 9 a.m. on Saturday with registration, camp information and welcome. Classes will be offered throughout the day on a variety of topics focused on how to
enjoy Arizona great outdoors. The day will conclude with instruction on how to prepare and enjoy a Dutch oven dinner and a campfire. Sunday will include an activity and wrap-up. _ really
want to reach those residents who have yet to experience the great Arizona outdoors. It a great opportunity for new residents, families or single parents who want to get outdoors, but don
know how to get started,says Arizona Game and Fish Department Public Information Officer Shelly Shepherd. t will be a non-intimidating environment to learn the basics. We hope that
participants will feel comfortable going out on their own after the workshop to enjoy outdoor recreational opportunities.nbsp; The workshop is being hosted in cooperation with the Coconino
County Parks and Recreation Department. Cataract Lake and the Coconino County Campground are located on the west side of Williams, off of Interstate 40 at exit #161. From the exit, go
north under the railroad tunnel and continue on for another mile. The campground will be on the right-hand side of the road, on the west side of the lake. The campground will accommodate
trailers, campers or tents. Workshop participants should pack appropriate clothing, be prepared for one night of camping, and should bring food, water, and snacks for the weekend.
Participants that have their own fishing equipment or binoculars are encouraged to bring them. For more information and to register for the workshop, contact the Game and Fish office in
Flagstaff at (928) 774-5045. The deadline for registration is Sept. 30. The workshop will be limited to 50 people, and a nominal fee of no more than $10 will be required when participants
arrive at camp Game and Fish employee receives award from national boating safety organization The National Association of State Boating Law Administrators (NASBLA) has honored
Madelyn Fenske, watercraft customer service supervisor for the Arizona Game and Fish Department, with its esteemed President Award for her contributions to the association and to boating
safety over the past year. She received the award at the association 49th annual meeting in Clearwater Beach, Fla., Sept. 6-10. NASBLA President John Fetterman recognized Fenske for the
extensive time and effort she devoted to the association Vessel Identification, Registration and Titling Committee. She worked on the revision of the Standard Numbering System Regulations
and also led the committee through several revisions of the Model Act for Vessel Titling. She was instrumental in the development of the National Vessel Numbering and Titling Manual as well as
the development and execution of the Vessel Numbering and Titling Program Measures of Effectiveness project. She continues to monitor the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform
State Laws Uniform Certificate of Title Act for Vessels. Fenske joined the Arizona Game and Fish Department in 1987 as the revenue control technician in the watercraft section. In 1993, she
became the customer service supervisor. She is responsible for the statewide watercraft registration program, which has considerable scope, complexity, and monetary and public impact.
Fenske provides technical guidance and direction to department personnel throughout the state and to the public in the design, development, implementation and evaluation of the program.

@ NASBLA is a national nonprofit organization that works to develop public policy for recreational boating safety. It represents the recreational boating authorities of all SO states and the U.S.
territories and offers a variety of resources, including training, model acts, education standards and publications. For more information, visit . www.nasbla.org Coming to a sporting store
near you: non-lead ammunition displays The next time you shop at Sportsman Warehouse, Cabela or Bass Pro stores in Arizona, look for the Arizona Game and Fish Department new non-lead
ammunition displays. The new displays, supported by partners like the Arizona Deer Association, Arizona Elk Society, Arizona Antelope Foundation, Arizona Desert Bighorn Sheep Society,
Arizona Chapter of the National Wild Turkey Federation and the sporting retailers, feature information on the performance benefits of non-lead ammunition, as well as the benefits to wildlife,
The department expects the displays to help hunters more quickly locate the non-lead ammunition theye looking for while also increasing awareness of lead toxicity in wildlife, especially the
endangered California condor. Lead toxicity continues to be the greatest obstacle to achieving a self-sustaining population of condors in the state. Studies show that lead shot and bullet
fragments found in game carcasses and gut piles are the main source of lead in condors. Condors were added to the federal endangered species list in 1967. The condor is the largest flying
land bird in North America. They can weigh up to 26 pounds and have a wingspan of up to 9 1/2 feet. Condors were first reintroduced in Arizona in 1996, and they can often be seen at the
Grand Canyon during the spring and summer, and in the Vermilion Cliffs during the winter. The department and its partners encourage hunters to continue their proud tradition of wildlife
conservation by using non-lead ammunition in condor range (Game Management Units 9, 10, 124/B, and 13A/B). The department started offering free non-lead ammunition in 2005 to hunters
drawn for hunts in the condor core range, which includes Game Management Units 12 A/B and 13A. Surveys show that more than 80 percent of hunters took measures last year to reduce the
amount of lead available to condors versus 60 percent in 2006. Want to learn how to hunt tree squirrels? The Arizona Game and Fish Department will conduct a free small game hunting
camp on Oct. 10 and 11 in the White Mountains to provide Arizona youth and others with the basic skills they need to successfully pursue tree squirrels. The program will also provide an
overview of hunting opportunities for other small game species in our state. Youth need to be at least 8 years old to participate. "This intensive camp is designed to provide youth and those
new to hunting with an opportunity to enhance their hunting knowledge and skills here in Arizona, while also teaching them the values of stewardship and wildlife conservation," says Wildlife
Manager Supervisor Mike Godwin. "The workshop is all about hands-on learning, asking questions, and being with others who are also interested in hunting in our state." The camp will be held
at the Los Burros Campground, located on Forest Road 224 that runs between Vernon and McNary. The program will cover hunting opportunities, firearm safety and game care. Other activities
include archery instruction and 3-D shooting, survival basics, first aid and more. Instructional sessions begin at 6 p.m. on Friday, and participants will hunt in the field with mentors Saturday.
The workshop, sponsored by the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, includes meals, instruction and field time with hunting mentors. The program is aimed at developing responsible and successful
hunters who recognize the importance of wildlife and habitat conservation. The White Mountain Rod and Gun Club will also be assisting with the event. For more information or to sign up,
contact or call the department Pinetop office at (928) 367-4281. The workshops are free, but pre-registration is required. ### This Wildlife News e-newsletter is issued every other week and
contains detailed and comprehensive information on the activities of the Arizona Game and Fish Department. To sign up for this newsletter or other Arizona Game and Fish Department
electronic information products, go to www.azgfd.gov/signup