8 Credits Early Life Sejong was the third son of King Taejong of Joseon. At the age of ten, he was given the title Grand Prince Chungnyeong (; ) and married a daughter of Sim On (; ) of
Cheongsong (; ), commonly known as Sim-ssi (; ), who later was given the title Princess-Consort Soheon (; ). King Taejong (reigned 1400-1418), SejongCls father, was cautious in choosing an
heir to the throne from among his four legitimate sons, due to bitter experiences with two Rebellions of Princes over succession to the throne of the early Joseon Dynasty.UCIp'(~(UD- The
young prince Sejong naturally excelled at his studies and was well favored by King Taejong. Sejong's two older brothers are considred responsible for Sejong's unique and uncharacteristic
ascension to the throne. When King Taejong stepped down from the throne, his first-born son officially became the new king. The first-born son, however, recognized that he lacked the
requisite skills for rulership, and felt that Sejong was destined to become king. He and his brother, the second prince, believing it was their duty to place Sejong on the throne, behaved with
extreme rudeness in the court and were soon banished from Seoul. This ploy of the two elder princes ultimately brought Sejong to the throne. The eldest prince became a hunter and lived in
the mountains, and the second son entered a Buddhist temple, where he became a. monk In June of 1418, Sejong was crowned King of Joseon and began his rule. However, King Taejong had
taken control of the military and continued to control the administration of the government for four years until his death in 1422. Strengthening of Diplomatic and Military Power stature of
King Sejong On the northern border, King Sejong established four forts and six posts to safeguard his people from the hostile Chinese and nomads living in . The Jurchens (s ) inhabited this
area and the borders were unclear. King Sejong aggressively explored the border and created various military regulations to ensure the safety of his kingdom, supporting the advancement of
Korean military technology and the development of the cannon. Different kinds of mortars and fire arrows were tested, as well as the use of gunpowder. In 1433, King Sejong sent Kim Jong-seo
(@ ), a prominent general, north to destroy the Manchurian barbarians. Kim's military campaign captured several castles and expanded Korean territory in the north, establishing the border of
modern-day North Korea. Manchurian Manchuria King Sejong was an effective military planner. After the end of the Goryeo Dynasty, the coastal areas of Korea were often invaded by pirates
(). In 1367 the government of Korea sent two diplomats to request that the Japanese government (the Ashikaga shogunate) tighten control over the pirates. On their return the diplomats
brought two Japanese monks with them. In 1375 another Korean diplomat visited , asking that the pirates be controlled more strictly, and brought back a Japanese monk who delivered a letter
to the Korean government. In 1377 and 1378, Korean diplomats again visited , and the Japanese feudal Lord Ouchi Yoshihiro cooperated by sending 180 soldiers to subjugate the Japanese
pirates. This activity initiated diplomatic relations between the Japanese government and the Joseon Dynasty. In 1401, the Muromachi Shogun, Ashikaga Yoshimitsu of Japan, ordered the
officials of Kyushu to regulate Japanese pirates, and at the same time sent a diplomat to open trade with the Ming dynasty of China. In 1404, Ashikaga Yoshimitsu sent a monk as his
representative to officially open trade with Korea. In 1406, Korea designated three treaty ports (including ) for trade with Japan, and many of the pirates moved to China and Southeast Asia. In
1419, King Sejong, supported by Taejong as his military adviser, ordered Yi Jong-muCIs fleet of 227 ships and 17,285 soldiers to attack Tsushima (C ) Island, a stronghold of the Japanese
pirates. This attack, called the Oei Invasion, established Korean control of Tsushima until after King SejongUs death, and ended most Japanese pirate activity. Japanese Wakou Zen Kyoto Japan
Pusan Culture Hunmin jeong-eum King Sejong supported the development of literature and encouraged higher officials and scholars to study at his court. His most valuable cultural legacy
was the enactment of ( DL) (). King Sejong oversaw the creation of a phonetic alphabet, Hangul, consisting of vowels, diphtongs (double-vowels), consonants and double-consonants, and
presented it to the Korean people in the ( TIL), an announcement composed of both and . The Korean people now had an alphabet which could be used to transcribe their own language. Some
scholars have thought that such a complex project, the invention of a new written alphabet, must have required research by a team of linguists over a long period of time. Documents show,
however, that King Sejong, who was himself an eminent linguist and phonetician, worked quickly in secret with a small staff of scholars. Thirteen times he sent his linguists to consult a famous
Chinese phonetician who was living in exile in .Hunmin jeong eumCorrect Sounds to Instruct the PeopleHunmin jeong eumHangulHanja Manchuria In his Preface to the ( OIL), King Sejong
explained why he was introducing the new alphabet:Hunmin jeong eum Our countryCs phonetics are different from the Chinese language and the two languages cannot relate to each other
Because of this, when Korean people want to speak and express themselves using Chinese writing, they are unable to do so. As I regret this situation, I have created a new alphabet of
twenty-eight characters, which the Korean people can easily lear and use in their daily lives. Conservative pro-Chinese government officials opposed the usage of , calling it or and citing the
superiority of the use of Chinese characters (). Although the upper classes mostly refused to lear Hangul, the new, simple writing system enabled the women of Yangban families and the
commoners to be literate, providing a means of general communication and contributing to the rise of a new culture in Korea. King Sejong established the Office for Publication in Hangul, which
published such works as his own Yongbi Eocheon Ga (, 1445, a tribute to the virtues of the royal ancestors).Hangulonmunvernacular languageHanjaSongs of Flying Dragons King Sejong also
composed (, July, 1447); (, July 1447); and the reference work (, September 1447).Seokbo SangjeolEpisodes from the Life of BuddhaWorin Cheon-gang JigokSongs of the Moon Shining on a
Thousand RiversDongguk Jeong-unDictionary of Proper Sino-Korean Pronunciation King Sejong gathered intellectuals from all over Korea, and in 1420, established a Hall of Worthies (; ; ) in
the royal palace. The scholars of the Hall of Worthies documented history, drafted documents and compiled books on various topics. Furthermore, King Sejong ordered that promising young
scholars be selected and sent to study at a temple in the mountains which later became the site of a library. Scholars there read not only works but the books of other Chinese scholars, and
works on , geography, medicine, and augury.Jiphyeonjeon Confucian astronomy Following the principles of , King Sejong was also a humanitarian. He reformed the legal system with a decree
that there must be three trials before a final judgment was reached, and prohibited brutality, such as flogging, in the punishment of criminals. Neo-Confucianism Technology King Sejong is
also credited with advancing technology in Korea during his reign. King Sejong called a young man named Jang Yeong-sil ( 0 ), a prominent inventor who belonged to the lower class, to his
court in Seoul. Recognizing his merit and potential, and despite protests from court officials, he gave him an official government position and the authority to invent anything he wished to. Jang
eventually invented the world's first rain gauge, a self-striking water clock, and a sundial. Another one of King SejongCls important projects was to expand the publishing industry in Korea. A
metal printing press had been used as early as 1234, during the Goryeo Dynasty, but in 1403 King Sejong initiated the use of an official press. King Sejong also promoted the cultivation of
paper mulberries for the development of paper quality. Further accomplishments during his reign include an astronomical observatory, a new calendar, and a system of weights and measures.
A year after his death, a projectile-launching vehicle was invented, followed by the invention of rocket projectiles, and instruments to measure land elevation and distance. End of King
SejongCIs Reign: 1450 King Sejong died at the age of 53 and was buried at the Yeong Mausoleum (; ) in 1450. He was succeeded by his first son, Munjong.u The street Sejongno and the
Sejong Center for the Performing Arts, both located in central , are named after King Sejong, and he is depicted on the 10,000- Won note. Seoul South Korean References Grayson, James
Routledge Curzon, 2002.Korea - A Religious History. ISBN 070071605X Kim-Renaud, Young-Key. . International Circle of Korean Linguistics, 1992.King Sejong the Great: the Light of Fifteenth
Century Korea ISBN 1882177010 Rees, David. . Hippocrene Books, 2001.Korea: An Illustrated History : From Ancient Times to 1945 ISBN 0781808731 Stephenson, F. Richard. . Seoul, Korea,
6-11 October, 1993. Yonsei University Press, 1997.Oriental astronomy from Guo Shoujing to King Sejong: Proceedings of an intemational conference ISBN 8971414189 External links