Many educators appreciate the value of using primary source materials in the classroom. The documents selected for this section provide many possibilities for classroom discussion or student
activities. For additional primary source materials related to the Holocaust, see the Web link to the Nizkor archives at the bottom of this page. A rationale for teaching with primary sources.
Excerpts from Hitler on Propaganda. Mein Kampf. The 25 points of the National Socialist German Worker's Party. Nazi Party Program. The agreement concluded at Munich, September 29,
1938, between Germany, Great Britain, France, and Italy. Munich Pact. The Nonagression Treaty concluded in Moscow, August 23, 1939, between Germany and the USSR. Nonagression Treaty.
 Address by Adolf Hitler before the Reichstag, September 1, 1939. Hitler Address. Proclamation by Adolf Hitler to the German People, September 3, 1939. Hitler Proclamation

Communication from the German government to the British government, handed by Joachim von Rippentrop, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the British Ambassador (Sir Neville Henderson) at
11:20 A.M., September 3, 1939. Communication from the German Government to the British Government. Minutes of the 1942 Wannsee Conference planning the annihilation of over eleven
million European Jews. The Wannsee Protocol. This list of decrees was presented as evidence at the Nuremberg Trials. Discriminatory Decrees Against the Jews. The Nazi order for the
"spontaneous" violence of that evening. Kristalinacht. Directives for the prosecution of offences committed within the occupied territories against the German State or the occupying power, of
December 7th, 1941. Night and Fog Decree. Documents related to the murder and cremation of mentally handicapped patients. Euthanasia. Reports on freezing, low pressure and other
experiments performed on camp inmates. Medical Experiments. Nazi correspondence related to the purpose and means of sterilizing Jewish and other workers. Sterilization of the Jewish
workers. Documents related to Auschwitz' function as a death camp. Auschwitz. Nazi testimony regarding gassing at the camp. Auschwitz. Nazi testimony regarding gassing at the camp.
Belzec. Nazi testimony regarding gassing at the camp. Treblinka. Nazi testimony regarding gassing at various camps. Camps. Nazi correspondence detailing the operation of gassing vans.
Gassing Vans. Nazi testimony about gassing vans. Gassing Vans. A chilling report by the commander of one of the detailing the murder of 137,346 persons in a five month period. The Jager
Report. Einsatzgruppen, Nazi correspondence, orders, and reports documenting mass murder. Documents about Mass Murder. Court testimony made by crematorium engineers. Crematorium
Construction. Excerpts from Emanuel Ringelblum's description of life in the Warsaw Ghetto. Life in the Warsaw Ghetto. Excerpts from General Stroop's report on the destruction of the Warsaw
Ghetto. Stroop Report. Complete text of General Stroop's report on the destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto. Stroop Report. Quotes from the Governor General of Occupied Poland. Hans Frank.
 Quotes from the head of the SS. Heinrich Himmler. Quotes from the editor of Julius Streicher. Der Sturmer. U.S. and Allied Efforts to Recover and Restore Gold and Other Assets Stolen or
Hidden by Germany During World War II. The Eizenstat Report.