Bauer TW Department of Pathology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. 2007 Feb;131(2):217-24. Abstract quote CONTEXT: Orthopedic and spine
surgeons are in frequent need of bone for skeletal reconstruction. The amount of autograft is limited, and conventional allograft has some disadvantages, so surgeons are now using increasing
amounts of demineralized allograft and a variety of synthetic materials to replace or "extend" autograft. OBJECTIVE: To provide an overview of the composition and histology of the materials
most likely to be seen by pathologists today. DATA SOURCES: The review is based on published literature and the author's experience with preclinical studies and human biopsies.
CONCLUSIONS: Pathologists are likely to find these skeletal substitute materials in biopsy and resection specimens from patients who have undergone prior treatment, and recognizing a
synthetic bone substitute can help explain an otherwise confusing specimen. Pathologists also play an important role in helping define the safety and efficacy of new bioactive materials. Arch
Pathol Lab Med. SYNOVIAL METAPLASIA Synovial metaplasia, a specialized form of repair. Fowler MR, Nathan CA, Abreo F. Departments of Pathology (Drs Fowler and Abreo) and
Otolaryngology (Dr Nathan), Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, Shreveport. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2002 Jun;126(6):727-30 Abstract quote Synovial metaplasia is a change seen
most frequently in the tissues surrounding silicone breast prostheses and in healing tissue adjacent to joint prostheses. It has also been described in skin and soft tissues, most frequently in
healing or healed traumatic or surgical wounds. We report a case of synovial metaplasia occurring in a hitherto unreported location, namely, adjacent to a silicone low-pressure voice
prosthesis. A review of cases of synovial metaplasia reported in the literature revealed that in most cases, spaces that form adjacent to foreign material (most commonly silicone breast
prostheses) and the smooth gliding surfaces of the foreign material that resist penetration by fibroblast processes are frequent associated findings that precede the occurrence of synovial
metaplasia. Thus, synovial metaplasia might represent a specialized form of healing in cases that have this combination of physical features. TENOSYNOVIAL CHONDROMATOSIS

Tenosynovial (extraarticular) chondromatosis: an analysis of 37 cases of an underrecognized clinicopathologic entity with a strong predilection for the hands and feet and a high local recurrence
rate. Fetsch JF, Vinh TN, Remotti F, Walker EA, Murphey MD, Sweet DE. Department of Soft Tissue, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC 20306-6000, USA. Tenosynovial
chondromatosis is a multinodular cartilaginous proliferation that arises from the tenosynovial membranes. This report describes the clinical, radiologic, and histopathologic findings in 37 cases
of this uncommon entity. There were 17 males and 20 females, ranging in age from 20 to 86 years (mean and median age, 46 years). The process involved tenosynovium of the fingers (n =
19), feet (n = 8), wrists (n = 4), ankles (n = 2), hand, not otherwise specified, or palm (n = 2), knee (n = 1), and forearm (n = 1). Signs of disease or symptoms were present for 5 weeks to
18 years (median duration, approximately 2 years) before surgical excision. The two most common complaints were a painless mass and a mass that was mildly tender with pressure. None of
the tumors had clinical, radiologic, or histopathologic evidence of articular or bone involvement. Histologically, all tumors consisted of a multinodular cartilaginous proliferation involving
tenosynovium and/or subsynovial connective tissue. Mild or moderate atypia, as encountered in chondroma of soft parts and synovial chondromatosis, was a frequent finding. Follow-up
information was available for 16 patients (43%). Only two patients with follow-up information remained disease free after their initial surgical procedure. Seven patients had one recurrence and
seven patients had two or more recurrences. Tenosynovial chondromatosis appears to be an extraarticular counterpart of synovial (intraarticular) chondromatosis. Our review indicates this
process is often confused with chondroma of soft parts, in part, because both entities have a predilection for the hands and feet. Diagnosis of this underrecognized entity is of clinical
importance because of the high local recurrence rate. Am J Surg Pathol. 2003 Sep;27(9):1260-8. Abstract quote Macpherson and Pincus. Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods. Twentyfirst Edition. WB Saunders. 2006. Rosai J. Ackerman's Surgical Pathology. Ninth Edition. Mosby 2004. Stemberg S. Diagnostic Surgical Pathology. Fourth Edition. Lipincott
Williams and Wilkins 2004. Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. Seventh Edition. WB Saunders 2005. DeMay RM. The Art and Science of Cytopathology. Volume 1 and 2. ASCP Press. 1996.
Weedon D. Weedon's Skin Pathology Second Edition. Churchill Livingstone. 2002 Fitzpatrick's Dermatology in General Medicine. 6th Edition. McGraw-Hill. 2003. Weiss SW and Goldblum 3R.
Enzinger and Weiss's Soft Tissue Tumors. Fourth Edition. Mosby 2001. Commonly Used Terms With Diseases of the Bones and Joints These are vascular channels around which lamellar bone is
deposited.Haversian Systems- This type of bone replaces woven bone and is deposited in a slower fashion in a layered orderly fashion. It is much stronger than woven bone.Lamellar Bone-
This refers to the pattem which collagen which is synthesized by the osteoblasts and deposited in a random pattern. Woven Bone-