Interim injunction granted against dismissal pending hearing of discrimination case (6 December 2002) Beck v Leichhardt Municipal Council Reduction of hours because of injury found
discriminatory (5 September 2002) Darlington v CASCO (RTF file) RAAF dismissal of man with insulin dependent diabetes found unlawful: deployability to combat duties not found to be an
inherent requirement of the particular position (6 June 2002). But see now Williams v Commonwealth of Australia federal court decision reversing this decision (1 February 2002) Application
refused for review of HREOC decision (upholding discrimination complaint in part and rejecting complaint in part) Humphries v Commonwealth (FMC 15 November 2001) Employment
discrimination complaint dismissed: no evidence that unfavourable treatment was due to complainant's disability. But see now Barghouti v Transfield Services Federal Court decision (FMC 14
September 2001) Disability employment assistance agencies not found to have discriminated by refusing assistance to person whose disabilities were outside their eligibility criteria; case
dismissed but no costs ordered Saddi v Active Employment (Federal Magistrates Court, 11 April 2001) Discrimination in employment found; $39,000 compensation ordered. Note that HREOC
had previously declined a complaint on the same matter as lacking in substance. McKenzie v ACT Department of Urban Services (Federal Magistrates Court, 23 October 2000) Procedure:
Complaint dismissed but no costs awarded Low v ATO Complaint regarding discrimination in 1993 dismissed as out of time: no costs payable on condition related proceedings withdrawn Ryan v
Presbytery of Wide Bay Sunshine Coast Education Complaint dismissed. Child care centre found to be an education provider but no evidence that treatment had been discriminatory N v C (22
December 2006) (24 November 2005) Complaint dismissed: exclusion because of disruptive behaviour not shown to be discriminatory because not shown to be result of disability Rana v
Flinders University of SA Discrimination claim rejected: information formats provided inconvenient but not inaccessible; most requirements which were communicated to university were met.
Hinchdiffe v University of Sydney (21 November 2003) Discrimination claim rejected: applicant for admission as student did not meet reasonable course entry requirements. But see also
decision Rana v University of South Australia (RTF file) 19 May 2003 Education complaint dismissed Croker v State of NSW & Anor Claim of direct and indirect discrimination by student
excluded from school for inappropriate behaviours rejected (FMC 28 June 2002) Minns v State of NSW (23 March 2001) Discrimination in education Travers v State of NSW Access to premises
5 October 2007 Webb v Child Support Agency 1 December 2004 Accessibility by mobility impaired persons to Community Centre and various picnic tables located on the foreshore - whether
a viewing platform should be created at Community Centre which is infrequently used for entertainment, whether a suitable ramp should be provided - whether all picnic tables should allow
access to mobility impaired persons - whether disabled toilets should have intemal hand basins - unlawful discrimination found in respect of toilets with external hand basins - Council did not
establish unjustifiable hardship. Access for All Alliance Inc v Hervey Bay City Council Discrimination found in requiring assistance dog to be tethered given evidence of training and disposition of
dog (FMC 9 May) 2002 Sheehan v Tin Can Bay Country Club Remedy refused on public policy grounds for lack of access to illegal brothel FMC 21 December 2001 Ball v Morgan and another
(23 October 2000) Access to premises for guide dog user Haar v Maldon Nominees Services (16 June 2005) No discrimination in refusal of home nursing service since service unavailable to
anyone due to staff shortage Wood v Calvary Hospital (14 January 2005) Claim of discrimination rejected: refusal of service not because of disability Thorn v Serco (15 December 2004) Less
timely service for users of wheelchair accessible taxis: no direct discrimination found by booking service; no indirect discrimination by booking service since no unreasonable condition or
requirement imposed by booking service Ball v Silver top Taxi Service (19 October 2004) Decision to confine in restrictive conditions within prison not a "service" under the DDA: decisions
made purely in exercise of State statutory function distinuished from educational and rehabilitation services; discussion of "requirement or condition" Rainsford v State of Victoria No. 2 Train
carriage doors closing while passenger attempting to board found negligent rather than discriminatory; rail operator found to have exrcised sufficient due diligence to prevent discrimination by
employees (FMC 3 May 2004) Vance v State Rail Authority of NSW (3 March 2004) No discrimination found in complaint by worker dissatisfied with workers compensation service. Discussion of
principles of summary dismissal of complaints. Gable v Vero Workers Compensation Ltd The Chief Federal Magistrate granted an extension of time in order to allow the complainant to file an
application in the FMS in relation to one of his allegations concerning contraventions of the DDA. Leave was also given to join Group 4 Correctional Services (the operators of the Port Phillip
Prison) as a respondent. Rainsford v State of Victoria Procedure: Summary dismissal of an application disclosing no reasonable cause of action (17 July 2002) Soreng v Victorian State Director
of Public Housing (27 June 2002) Claim against court officers dismissed Meyer v Holt (FMC 13 February 2002) Injunction refused: to grant an injunction requiring release of prisoner from cell
would pre-empt role of parole authorities and was not necessary to enable consideration of discrimination complaint regarding back injury. Rainsford v Group 4 Correctional Services (FMC 28
November 2001) Magistrate McInnis found that when the enforcement provisions of the DDA were moved into the HREOC Act they ceased to apply against the State Crown, because that is
what HREOC Act section 6 provides. Note: Amendments to remedy what was clearly a drafting oversight in the last set of amendments have now taken effect under the HREOC Amendment Act
2002. Rainsford v State of Victoria (FMC 11 October 2001) Allegations of racial and disability discrimination dismissed Maghiar v State of W.A. Insurance Refusal of travel insurance on
grounds of preexisting disability found unlawful Bassanelli v QBE Insurance (Federal Magistrates Court, 6 April 2001) Magistrate Driver found there to be disability discrimination in an HIV
exclusion in insurance, but was satisfied that there was a reasonable basis for exclusion which fell within the exemption of the Act s.46(2). The application was therefore dismissed. No order
was made as to costs due mainly to the public interest element of the matter which has some precedent value and implications on similiar insurance policies. Xiros v Fortis Life Insurance
Accommodation Accommodation of people with disabilities a matter of international concern (23 October 2002) O'Connor v Ross and another Sport De Alwis v Hair, Australian Cricket Board &
Others The complainant (a cricket spectator) sought an interim injunction to restrain Mr Hair from umpiring in matches to be played by Sri Lanka in January 2003 alleging that Mr Hair would
discriminate against the Sri Lankan bowler Muttiah Muralitharan on the basis of Mr Muralitharan's disability, said to be Diflexion deformity, which caused the bowler(s arm to be bent. The
Chief Federal Magistrate dismissed the application on the basis that there was no arguable case. The case was subsequently brought before the Federal Court for an appeal and an application
for interim injunction The Court ordered that the notice of appeal/urgent application be struck out. (RTF) (22 February 2002) Failure to obtain or be considered for promotion found not due to
disability. Arrah v P & O Catering Services P/L Administration of Commonwealth laws and programs (FMC 30 November 2007) Multiple claims of dicrimination dismissed, with costs, as lacking
in substance Lawrance v Commonwealth of Australia and others (FMC 1 November 2001) Mr Vintila disagreed with costings in the Regulation Impact Statement for draft Disability Standards for
accessible public transport and complained that the approach taken amounted to discrimination in provision of services and in administration of a Commonwealth law or program. Magistrate
McInnis dismissed the complaint with costs as misconceived. Vintila v Attorney-General (Federal Magistrates Court 7 June 2001) Claim upheld of discrimination by Inquiry Commissioner in
assessing credibility of complainant. Various other claims dismissed. Oberoi v HREOC Administrative Appeals Tribunal The AAT does not have jurisdiction to review decisions to decline or
terminate complaints. See the AAT decision in confirming this. Clayton Croker and Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission AAT No 12701 [1998] ATA 160 (18 February 1998) Footer
information