Von WillebrandOs Disease (VWD) By: Dr. Leah Cohn See Larger Image Von Willebrand's disease (vWD) is caused by a deficiency of von Willebrand's factor (vWF), one of the elements that
allow blood to form clots. Von Willebrand's disease can cause prolonged or excessive bleeding. VWO is a hereditary defect that is passed from parents to offspring through genetic material.
Inheritance is complicated, but vWD is equally likely to affect males and females, and one affected parent can pass the condition to his offspring. Many different dog breeds can be affected with
VWD and different breeds are prone to different subtypes of the disease. The severity of vWD varies from dog to dog, but in most, it becomes a problem only when surgery is needed or if the
dog is injured. What to Watch For Prolonged or excessive bleeding after injury Prolonged or excessive bleeding after surgery Bleeding from the gums or nose Bloody urine VWD cannot be
diagnosed definitively with routine in-hospital testing but requires specialized tests. Diagnostic tests are needed to recognize vWD and exclude other diseases. These tests may include:
Diagnosis A complete medical history and physical examination Complete blood count (CBC). This test should be performed on any bleeding dog to be certain the number of platelets (the cells
which allow clots to form) is normal and to check for anemia, a deficiency of oxygen-carrying red blood cells. Tests of clotting ability, including activated partial thromboplastin time (APT) and
one-stage prothrombin time (OSPT). Although results of these tests will be normal in a dog with vWD, they help rule out other diseases. Buccal mucosal bleeding time. In this crude test of
platelet function, vascular (blood vessel) function, and vWD, a small, precise cut is made inside the dog's lip and the time it takes to form a clot is measured. This test helps your veterinarian
decide if more specific testing is indicated. Measurement of von Willebrand's factor. Unfortunately, this specific blood test may need to be repeated because there is a lot of day-to-day variation
in vWE concentration and because results may fall into a borderline range. Treatments Most dogs with vWD require no treatment unless a surgery is planned or an injury is sustained. Blood
products from healthy dogs can stop excessive bleeding in dogs with vWD. Either the liquid part of blood (plasma), whole blood (plasma plus blood cells) or a concentrate of clotting factors
(cryoprecipitate) may be given. If repeated transfusions are necessary, it is important to cross match the patient's blood with the donor's blood. (DDAVP) is a hormone that can increase von
Willebrand's Factor concentrations temporarily. It may be given just prior to surgery or to a healthy dog that will then be used to give blood to the dog with vWD. Desmopressin acetate If a dog
with vWD is found to have poor thyroid function, thyroid supplementation is recommended. Provide soft padded areas for your dog to lie on. Minimize the chance of injury by observing and
fixing any sharp corners, such as on doggie doors. It is usually not necessary to limit activity as spontaneous bleeding is not common. If your dog should begin bleeding, seek veterinary
assistance immediately. Because it is a hereditary disease, an animal bom with vWD cannot be cured. Do not breed dogs that have vWD. Although careful breeding can minimize the incidence
of vWD, a complex inheritance pattern makes elimination of the disease in a breed difficult. Minimize the chance of injury by keeping your dog confined either in a fenced area or on a leash
when outdoors. If your dog should begin bleeding, seek veterinary assistance immediately. Inform any veterinarian treating your dog about his vWD. This is especially important prior to
surgical procedures. Inform any groomer handling your dog about his condition; they will use extra care in clipping and trimming nails and can be prepared if a cut occurs. Home Care and
Prevention