General race information What is the Mothers Day Classic (MDC)? The MDC is the biggest community fundraising event for breast cancer in Australia. It involves thousands of women, men,
girls and boys of all ages and takes place each year around the country on Mothers Day. Who can enter the event? Anyone can enter the event. Children, adults, families, school teams,
corporate teams, friends, neighbours etc. We welcome anyone. Who organises each event? The events are organised and presented by Women in Super Cl a national network of women
working in the superannuation industry. Why was the event started? This initiative was inspired by the knowledge that research is gradually improving the survival rate of the one in eight
women who get breast cancer during their life. Improving the quality of life of those with breast cancer is a valuable and rewarding investment into our community. Can I bring my dog? No.
Pets are not allowed at the event ground or on the run/walk course for safety reasons. How can I get sponsored? If you are being sponsored in the event we can send you out a sponsorship
form. Alternatively, you can download a form from the web by clicking here. We also have a personal where your sponsors can donate online and you can track your donations. Ask your friends
or family to sponsor you either : donations page Online via your personal donation page or by complete the official sponsorship form and then collect the money and send a cheque for the
total amount to: Mothers Day Classic National Breast Cancer Foundation National Breast Cancer Foundation GPO Box 4126, SYDNEY, NSW 2001 Is the event only for women? No, our event is
open to all men, women and children, of any age. Can I participate in a different event to what I registered in? If you decide to walk or run a different event to the one you entered, please
contact the event manager at your capital city or regional location to let them know. Are there toilets available at the event? Yes, portable toilets are available, which will be stationed near the
course. Are prams welcome? Yes, prams are most welcome. If you are entering the run with a pram please start at the back of the pack. Can I buy any merchandise? Yes, we have t-shirts,
hoodies, socks, caps and much more. You can purchase merchandise at the event on the day but this is subject to availability. You can also order via the registration form or online. Dollars and
cents Where does the money raised go? All proceeds from the Mothers Day Classic are donated to the , a not for profit organisation that promotes and supports research into breast cancer
prevention and treatment. This money has enabled four major research scholarships to be undertaken. National Breast Cancer Foundation How can I contribute financially? You can contribute
in a number of ways. The best way is to participate in the Mothers Day Classic event and seek sponsorship for yourself from family and friends. Visit our for the details. sponsorship page If you
would prefer to assist via a direct financial contribution, visit our . donations page How much has been raised over the years? To date, more than $3 million has been raised for the National
Breast Cancer Foundation since the eventUls inception in 1998. Can my company sponsor the MDC? Absolutely. We actively encourage corporate organisations to get involved with the MDC,
and would love to hear from you. Please use the contact form located on our to send us your request. sponsors page Can I transfer my entry or obtain a refund? No. How do I pay for my
entry? MDC accepts valid Visa or Mastercard Credit Cards. Money orders and cheques are also acceptable and should be made payable to Mothers Day Classic (address for mailing is on the
entry form). We request that you please do not send cash in the mail. What does my entry fee provide me? You mean besides a great day with your friends and family? Each Particpant will
receive a Mothers Day Classic Commemorative Medallion and showbag full of goodies including a Tuppawere product. Check out your relevant cityCis page for more details. Getting involved I
want to join in - what now? To sign up for the race, visit your respective citys page by using the links here: