Use the chart below to determine the amount of your fee.Determine the fee. Last... Mail the completed form to the address shown on this page.nclude a personal check or money order for
the fee and the photocopies of your proofs of identity.Complete the form. Mail the form, fee and proofs of identity. Read These Instructions Carefully Read the instructions (form ) and the
information about proof of identity (form ). To replace your vehicle plates, registration sticker, or registration document, complete the application (form ). You can use the same form to replace
any registration item. MV-82.1 ID-82 MV-82 of your or other that equal a value of six points or more. send your original proofs of identity.Send photocopiesNYS photo driver license proof of
identity Do not , write the new address on form MV-82. The DMV will change the address on . To change your address on your photo documents and other vehicle registrations, see the
instructions on how to .If your address has changedthat vehicle registration only change your address or your name You can have your registration items sent to an address that is different
from the address on your registration document. Include and clearly print the alternate address.a separate noteDo not write the alternate address on form MV-82. , you must visit a DMV office.
See the instructions on how to .If your name has changedYou cannot change your name by mail. change your address or your name If you from a set of two vehicle plates, you must . Enclose
the plate with the forms, documents and fee. The DMV will issue a new set of vehicle plates with a new plate number. before you surrender a vehicle plate or vehicle plates. The DMV office will
not accept a vehicle plate with a frame or any fasteners attached. lost one vehicle platesurrender the plate that you haveRemove frames and fasteners , ask a police agency in NYS to complete

form MV-78B for you. Send the form (not a photocopy) with your application. if your vehicle plates or registration documents were lost because of a crime. If the items were lost because of a
crimeYou do not pay a fee Download the Forms