Encyclopedia article; The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition, 2004 Put phrases in double quotes Encyclopedia article; The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition, 2004 Loading,

______ TORNADO dark, funnel-shaped cloud containing violently rotating air that develops below a heavy cumulonimbus cloud mass and extends toward the earth. The
funnel twists about, rises and falls, and where it reaches the earth causes great destruction. The diameter of a tornado varies from a few feet to a mile; the rotating winds attain velocities of
200 to 300 mi (32001480 km) per hr, and the updraft at the center may reach 200 mi per hr. The is the standard scale for rating the severity of a tornado as measured by the damage it causes.
A tornado is usually accompanied by thunder, lightning, heavy rain, and a loud "freight train" noise. Fujita scale In comparison with a or , a tornado covers a much smaller area but can be
violent and destructive. The atmospheric conditions required for the formation of a tomado include great thermal instability, high humidity, and the convergence of warm, moist air at low levels
with cooler, drier air aloft. Although tomadoes have occurred on every continent except Antarctica, they are most common in the continental United States, where tornadoes typically form over
the central and southem plains and the Gulf states, usually several hundred miles southeast of a cyclone. A tornado travels in a generally northeasterly direction with a speed of 20 to 40 mi
(320164 km) per hr. The length of a tornado's path along the ground varies from less than one mile to several hundred. Tornadoes occurring over water are called . cyclone hurricane
waterspouts See J. Verkaik and A. Verkaik, (1998); H. B. Bluestein, (1999).Under the Whirlwind: Everything You Need to Know about Tornadoes but Didn't Know Who to AskTornado Alley:
Monster Storms of the Great Plains The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition Copyright 2004, Columbia University Press. Licensed from Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products N.V. All rights
reserved. -47767- Questia Media America, Inc. Encyclopedia Article Title: Tornado. Encyclopedia Title: The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition. Publisher: Columbia University Press. Place of
Publication: New York. Publication Year: 2004.www.questia.com Publication Information: This feature allows you to create and manage separate folders for your different research projects. To
view markups for a different project, make that project your current project. This feature allows you to save a link to the publication you are reading or view all the publications you have put
on your bookshelf. This feature allows you to save a link to the page you are reading, which you can later return to from Projects. This feature allows you to highlight words or phrases on the
publication page you are reading. This feature allows you to save a note you write on the publication page you are reading. This feature allows you to create a citation to the page you are
reading that you can paste into your paper. Highlight a passage to include that passage as a quotation. This feature allows you to save a reference to a publication you are reading for your
bibliography or generate a bibliography you can paste into your paper. This feature allows you to print a range of pages or a single page from the item you are reading, including your notes or
highlights (IE users must have "print background colors and image" setting selected.) This feature allows you to look up words in a dictionary, thesaurus or encyclopedia. About Questia Tools
@ Close Window Questia's powerful research tools allow you to highlight, take notes, bookmark and even create instant citations and bibliographies. To use these features and save hours of
work, you must to the Questia service. be a subscriber Choose a subscription plan to save tons of time, stress and hassle, and experience faster, easier research.Need a Questia account?
Login now!Already have a Questia account? Username