ReadWriteThink Classroom Activity POEMS ABOUT POCKETS by Sherwin Bitsui by Hart Crane by Mark Doty by Peter Everwine by Jane Kenyon by Howard Nemerov by Elizabeth Garton Scanlon
@ Print Celebrate the second national Poem In Your Pocket Day on Thursday, April 30, 2009! The idea is simple: select a poem you love during National Poetry Month then carry it with you to
share with co-workers, family, and friends on a date in April (to be announced). Poems from pockets will be unfolded throughout the day with events in parks, libraries, schools, workplaces,
and bookstores. using ideas below or let us know how you will celebrate Poem In Your Pocket Day by emailing . Create your own Poem In Your Pocket Day event npm@poets.org Put Poems In
Pockets. In this age of mechanical and digital reproduction, it's easy to carry a poem, share a poem, or start your own PIYP day event. Here are some ideas of how you might get involved:
Start a "poems for pockets" give-a-way in your school or workplace Urge local businesses to offer discounts for those carrying poems Post pocket-sized verses in public places Handwrite some
lines on the back of your business cards Start a street team to pass out poems in your community Distribute bookmarks with your favorite immortal lines Add a poem to your email footer
Post a poem on your blog or social networking page Project a poem on a wall, inside or out Text a poem to friends _: send your ideas to Help us expand the list npm@poets.org Pocket
Partners Poem In Your Pocket Day is made possible, in part, by the National Council of Teachers of English and the American Booksellers Association, and by public funds from the New York
City Department of Cultural Affairs. Need a Poem for Your Pocket? Along with your library, bookstore, or shelf at home, you can find the perfect poem for your pocket by Poets.org, or by
signing up to from new spring poetry titles each day during April. Download pocket-sized to print and share: Poem PDFs Poem In Your Pocket History Poem In Your Pocket Day has been
celebrated each April in New York City since 2002. Each year, city parks, bookstores, workplaces, and other venues burst with open readings of poems from pockets. Even the Mayor gets in on
the festivities, reading a poem on the radio. For more information on New York City celebration, visit . nyc.gov/poem Check out highlights from the . first national Poem In Your Pocket Day
Poems have been stowed in pockets in a variety of ways, from the commonplace books of the Renaissance to the pocket-sized publications for Army soldiers in World War II. Have a story about
the marriage of the poem and the pocket? Send them to . npm@poets.org Poets.org In Your Pocket In time for the first national Poem In Your Pocket Day, the Academy announced the launch
of a mobile poetry archive which brings the entire collection of more than 2,500 poems, as well as post biographies and historical essays, into the palm of your hand