The dailies in South Florida are outsourcing jobs, so why can't we? By Eric Barton The is going downRocky Mountain News Published on December 10, 2008 at 12:30pm The began marking
its sesquicentennial months before the actual date  April 23, 2009  with the launch of a planned 150-part series spotlighting its coverage of notable historic events that took place during its
life span. But the paper has also been embracing new technology even as its basic business design  printing information on paper that's then transported at great expense to the mailboxes
and driveways of subscribers who are often many miles away  becomes more and more antiquated.Rocky Mountain News ,,,, The announces it is for sale.Rocky Mountain News

MediaNews Group CEO Dean Singleton Subject(s): Rocky Mountain News Denver Newspaper Agency MediaNews Group Dean Singleton John Temple This collision of the past and the future
took on a special poignancy on December 4, when video journalist Sonya Doctorian captured newsroom footage of John Temple, the 's editor, publisher and president, and Rich Boehne,
president and CEO of its parent company, Cincinnati-based E.W. Scripps, telling the paper's staff that the tabloid had just been put up for sale. That video was then loaded on the 's website,
along with the rest of Boehnes comments, as the paper tried to cover itself like any other story.RockyRocky Neither man described the development as fatal, even though Scripps has given
itself only a little over a month to find a buyer smack-dab in the middle of the worst newspaper market in the history of the industry. But the expressions on the faces of staffers such as Tina
Griego, Gary Massaro and Mark Brown imply that the end is near. It's too bad, then, that Doctorian's camera didn't capture a much less glum episode that happened shortly after the meeting
broke up. Columnist Mike Litwin re-enacted a speech delivered by John Belushi's Bluto Blutarsky in the 1978 movie . In that scene, when the residents of Delta House learn that they've been
expelled, D-Day (Bruce McGill) mutters, "War's over"  to which Blutarsky responds, "Over? Did you say ? Nothing is over until decide it is! Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl
Harbor? Hell, no!"Animal Houseoverwe In his column the next day, however, Littwin wasn't nearly as cocksure. He joked that the first thing he and his 231 newsroom colleagues will say on
their next job is, "Do you want fries with that?" Not that such a fate is likely to befall Litwin. Should the collapse, there's a good chance the will hire a handful of marquee writers from its
longtime rival, and he's the biggest potential catch. (Look for our shopping list on page 19.) Still, the vast majority of the journos who chose to bet their livelihood on the survival of the paper
rather than taking buyouts or jumping ship over the past couple of years will be looking for work  and since precious few newspapers are hiring these days, most are likely to find employment
in different fields.RockyDenver PostRocky The impact on the community will be harder to measure but every bit as significant. The became Colorado's first newspaper when it was founded in
1859, seventeen years before statehood, and its readership battle with the is rightly remembered as one of the country's last great newspaper wars. That scrap came to an end from a business
perspective in 2001 with the institution of a joint operating agreement, a fifty-fifty business partnership between the papers that is overseen by the Denver Newspaper Agency. (For more on the
way the JOA muddies a potential closure, see page 20.) Most observers expected the journalistic competition to end as well. But the stayed as scrappy as ever, winning a fistful of Pulitzer
Prizes, and helped make Denver a more interesting place to live.RockyPostRockyRocky That won't change prior to mid-January, at which time Scripps execs say they will consider "other
options in the absence of a buyer. Temple thinks such a person might actually exist  or at least he's not ready to write off the possibility. "Sitting here on my desk is a poster from 1993:
"Save the ,"" he says. "The was in much more dire circumstances than we are today. It was on its deathbed, and along came Rupert Murdoch. He bought it, and fifteen years later, it's a vibrant
part of that community. I'm not saying the identical thing is going to happen here. But we'll see." New York PostPost Of course, any fantasy that casts Rupert Murdoch as a white knight and the
as a paragon of lively journalism has credibility issues from the get-go  and Dean Singleton isn't buying into it. The publisher of the and vice chairman and CEO of MediaNews Group, a
nationwide newspaper chain based in Denver, Singleton doubts that the Scripps crew expects Murdoch or anyone else to show up with a checkbook. "I think if somebody walked in and wanted
to buy it, they'd sell it," he says. "But I don't think even they think there'll be a buyer."New York PostPost If that's true, they're not alone. Few major newspapers have been sold of late:
Singleton's 2006 purchase of the is among the most recent. Besides, there's a glut of other name properties available for purchase that are attracting little or no attention from serious firms,
including the and the  and the December 8 announcement of a bankruptcy filing on behalf of the Tribune Co., owner of the and the , underscores the illness of the print-journalism trade as a
whole. So does the condition of the , which is reportedly $11 million in the red over the past nine months.San Jose Mercury NewsSen Diego Union-TribuneMiami HeraldLos Angeles
TimesChicago TribuneRocky 12345