Home About the Press Now in its second century of scholarly publishing, Columbia University Press seeks to enhance University's educational mission by acquiring and publishing outstanding
original works by scholars and others that contribute to an understanding of global human concems.Through the agency of book, reference, and electronic publishing and , the Press endeavors
to broaden the university's international reputation in the humanities, sciences, and social sciences. In 2007 the Press launched , an imprint that will publish works of practical importance by
thought leaders in the academy and in the finance profession. Columbia University Press has also partnered with Hurst Publishers, Ltd. to bring new voices in history and current affairs under a
new Columbia/Hurst imprint. The Press is also now publishing books with the Social Science Research Council that bring to bear new understandings of critical social, political, and economic
issues. The first books in the imprint include , edited by Jacob Hacker, , edited by Katherine Newman, and , edited by Andrew Lakoff and Stephen J. Collier. Columbia University Press recently
added two new distribution clients: and In January, 2008 the university presses of California, Chicago, and Columbia announced that the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has awarded a grant to
commence publication of a major book series covering South Asia. Titled "South Asia across the Disciplines the new series aims to publish six monographs per year, in a collaborative effort
across all three University Presses. The Press is now a member of the , an innovative partnership of nonprofit publishers, booksellers, and libraries dedicated to bringing works of serious
non-fiction to readers in a variety of digital and traditional formats. featured the Press as one of the "Top Twenty Publishing Companies to Work For" as selected by employees. Columbia
University Press is located at 61 West Sixty-second Street, New York, NY 10023.History Columbia University Press was founded in 1893 and is the fourth-oldest university press in the United
States. The purpose of the press expressed in its Certificate of Incorporation is to "promote the study of economic, historical, literary, scientific and other subjects and to promote and
encourage the publication of literary works embodying original research in such subjects." Signers of the certificate included Seth Low, then president of Columbia, Henry Fairfield Osborne, and
Nicholas Murray Butler, who would succeed Low in 1902 as president of the university and of the Press. In its first quarter century, CUP's list focused on politics, including books by two U.S.
presidents, Woodrow Wilson and William Howard Taft; on seminal books by Columbia University faculty, including Theodosius Dobzhansky and Edwin Seligman; and on seriesthe Columbia
University Biological Series, the Columbia University Studies in English and Comparative Literature, several series on Oriental and Middle Eastem studies, the first published anthropology series
(edited by Franz Boas), and the Records of Civilization, a series of translations and studies of Western and, later, Asian civilization. In 1928 an editorial department was formed to create , the
first comprehensive English-language encyclopedia in one volume. The Columbia Encyclopedia In the 1940s, building on the success of , the Press expanded its reference program by publishing
the and . The two works, which now exist in both print and electronic forms, remain essential reference works that are acclaimed by librarians. In addition to these single-volume reference
works, the Press has also published major multivolume works, including Geoffrey Bullough's , , , the first complete English translation of Antonio Gramsci's , and .The Columbia
EncyclopediaGrangers Index to PoetryThe Columbia Gazetteer of the WorldNarrative and Dramatic Sources of ShakespeareThe Papers of Alexander HamiltonThe Letters of Ralph Waldo
EmersonPrison NotebooksThe Documentary History of the Supreme Court of the United States, 1789-1800 Innovative Columbia University instructional programs are reflected in the Press's
publishing of material for teaching core courses on Asian civilization. Under the direction of William Theodore de Bary, the Press has published and subsequently revised four influential
anthologies: (first published in 1958), (1958), (1960), and (1996). These anthologies have been followed by dozens of standard-setting translations, from Donald Keene's translation of the
(1961) to , translated by Victor Mair (2007).Sources of Indian TraditionSources of Japanese TraditionSources of Chinese TraditionSources of Korean TraditionMajor Plays of ChikamatsuThe Art of
War: Sun Zi's Military Methods Throughout its history, one of the strengths of the Press has been the diversity of the Press's list. The Press has also distinguished itself with its strong list in
social work, publishing texts that have been widely adopted in courses and are used by professionals in the field. Through its European Perspectives series and the publication of the Wellek
Library Lectures, the Press has published a range of innovative and leading scholars. Other notable lecture series published by Columbia University Press include the Schopf Lectures and The
Bampton Lectures. In recent years the press has published prominent authors from a variety of disciplines, including Theodor Adorno, Talal Asad, Peter Brown, Judith Butler, Eileen Chang,
Arthur Danto, John Lewis Gaddis, Mikhail Gorbachev, Roald Hoffman, Donald Keene, Julia Kristeva, John Allen Paulos, John Rawls, Jeffrey Sachs, Edward Said, Joseph Stiglitz, Herve This, and
Kenneth Waltz. The Press currently publishes approximately 160 new titles every year in the fields of Asian studies and literature, biological sciences, business, culinary history, current affairs,
economics, environmental sciences, film and media studies, finance, history, international affairs, literary studies, Middle Eastern studies, New York City history, philosophy, neuroscience,
paleontology, political theory, religion, and social work. Widely reviewed and the recipients of numerous , Columbia University Press titles are sold around the world. awards Columbia
University Press continues to be a leader in the field of electronic publishing with innovative and timely products such as (CIAO), the , and the . Columbia International Affairs Online Columbia
Granger's World of Poetry Columbia Gazetteer of the World Mission Statement Columbia