Having difficulty choosing the best culinary school for you? Learn andthen| || 1111111111 | It's the best culinary school in the world." Paul Bocuse, world-renowned French chef At our
campus in Hyde Park, New York, we don't just have master chefs; we have the most Certified Master Chefs of any culinary college on our . We don't just have alumni; we have a, many of them
leaders in the food industry. We don't just offer hands-on experience; .That's The Culinary Institute of America outstanding faculty network of more than 37,000 graduates students spend over
1,300 hours in the kitchen or bakeshop, more than at almost any other culinary school A CIA bachelor's or associate degree in or is an unmatched credential that will open doors to an endless
number of exciting career opportunities for you. culinary arts baking and pastry arts It's not just the fact that Paul Bocusene of the world's most respected chefss saying it. The foodservice and
hospitality industry has known it for a long time now: The Culinary Institute of America is the world's premier culinary college. As a true culinary college, the depths of its resources and the
strengths of its degree programs make the CIA so much more than a cooking school. Get the you need to get started today. college admissions information The Convenience of Multiple
Locations The CIA has campuses on the East Coast, West Coast, and in the Southwest. Our campus sits along the majestic Hudson River, just 90 minutes from all the exciting dining and
cultural opportunities that New York City has to offer. The is located in the heart of the world-class vineyards, wineries, and restaurants of the Napa Valley. The is situated on the San Antonio
River in a vibrant city that's the culinary gateway to Latin America. And it should come as no surprise that there's a CIA in restaurant-rich New York City, tooa

href="http://www.ciachef. edu/enthusiasts/programs/astor/">The Culinary Institute of America at Astor Center. Hyde Park, New York CIA at Greystone in St. Helena, California CIA, San Antonio
campus in Texas Each CIA location offers you a different mix of culinary education options, from and to courses for food and . But all four share one essential ingredientur world-famous
commitment to excellence. degree certificate programs professionals enthusiasts Get directions to our or campus and come visit us. Take a campus tout, or dine in one of the award-winning
CIA restaurants. Or, check out our Texas campus or New York City venue. You'll see why The Culinary is the place to be! New York California