Arizona Game and Fish Department From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: , navigation search is tasked with conserving, enhancing, and restoring 's diverse resources and habitats
through aggressive protection and management programs. It also provides wildlife resources and safe watercraft and off-highway vehicle recreation for the enjoyment of, appreciation by, and
use by present and future generations. The Arizona Game and Fish Department Arizona wildlife Contents [] edit Wildlife Conservation Black-footed Ferret The Arizona Game and Fish
Department has developed a "Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Strategy" (CWCS) a 10-year vision for managing Arizona s fish, wildlife and natural habitats. This effort enlisted input and
partnerships with various agency cooperators, sportsman and recreational groups, conservation organizations, special interest groups, Native American tribes, county and municipal
governments, and the general public. The Arizona Game and Fish Department works to recover threatened and endangered species, to help urban residents appreciate and coexist with our
unique wildlife, to educate children about the environment, and to create new opportunities for outdoor recreation. Research is a key element in the Arizona Game and Fish Department's
conservation and management efforts. It is the result of research that helps determine the methods to best conserve our wildlife and habitat. Few places offer the diversity of landscapes,
plants, and animals as found in Arizona. In order to maintain this diversity and natural heritage, the importance of conservation and management programs, strategy, and policy cannot be
overstated. Wildlife and Conservation are both integral parts of Arizona's natural heritage. [] edit Watchable Wildlife Arizona is home to more than 900 animal species and 50 million public
acres of natural land. The Program that strives to manage wildlife while providing for the responsible recreational use of the resource. Much of the support for the program comes from the
Heritage Fund, a fund started in 1990 by Arizona voters to further conservation efforts in the state. Funding comes from Arizona Lottery ticket sales. Arizona Wildlife Viewing