Ungourdly Art Plates, prints, wooden decorative objects. Anything else I feel like painting. Like most people, I get bored with my job. If I said I was thrilled with every stroke of the paintbrush
I'd be lying. Most times that's true, but every once and awhile I feel the need to paint on something other than gourds. In my fantasy land-life, I'd own a little shop, scrounge around auctions
and thrift shops and revitalize things. But for now, this will do. Sign up for our Free Newsletter & a chance to Win! Stained Glass Orchid Garden, is comprised of four stretched canvases. The
edges are textured and finished (in black, which looks striking), so no frames are necessary. Each comes ready to hang. Acrylic gouache. Each canvas is 6" square, and since no framing is
necessary they can fit in tight spaces. SOLD These paintings can be arranged vertically, horizontally, diagonally or in a sqaure, as shown This is La Parguera, my home in Puerto Rico. Colorful
casetas line the shore, while the dolphins swim offshore. It's true... I watch them many momings. The porthole border is faux-verdigris, with a matching plate stand (included). Acrylic gouache
on ceramic. Not for food. 9" Plate with Stand $165.00 When T originally taught myself to paint it was in a folk art style from Norway called Rosemaling. I've updated the more somber,
traditional colors to include the vivid Caribbean colors which surround me. Mats not included. Floral Folk ArtPrint I 10" x 12 " Floral Folk ArtPrint II 10" x 12"$25.00 Another Telemark style
of folk art. A riot of jewel-tones are set off with a soft plum mat. Acrylic gouache on canvas in a clear glass, rosewood frame. 16" x 18 Artistic Invisions Humpback Whales pass by Puerto Rico
on their annual migration. On our trip down, one whale surfaced less than 10 feet from our boat. Ken was jazzed, but all I could think of was my sister's warning: "Do you know a whale can
sink a boat in 5 minutes!" Thanks! Each stretched canvas is 6" square and the edges have a textured, painted finish, making framing unnecessary..keep them together or space them apart,
they are ready to fill a small, empty space. Acrylic gouache Set of 2 -$ 140.00 I chose autumn colors when I painted this exotic decorative plate which I found one day. It comes ready to
hang, or use the wooden plate stand, included. Acrylic gouache on hardwood. 10" diameter Please contact gallery for availability. Artistic Invisions