Aug 29, 2006 Striving to become THE global coffee brand, Starbucks has tripled its revenues over the past 5 years to some US$8-billion in 2006. With just 20% of the world's coffee consumed
in North America, Starbucks aggressively sells its offerings in countries that already have dedicated coffee or tea drinkers. International revenues jumped over 30% in 2006. While domestic
growth also has been robust, revenues from U.S. operations have risen more slowly at 20%. Some 20% of total company revenues now originate outside America, up sharply from only 9% in
1997. Growth has been paced by new store openings around the world. In 2001 the company had 3,200 retail locations in America and about 400 outlets in 17 other nations. Today Starbucks
has about 12,000 stores, almost 4,000 of which are in 36 countries outside the U.S. Similar to other retailing giants like McDonalds and Wal-Mart, Starbucks has experienced growing pains in
bringing American-style coffee sales to intemational marketplaces particularly in volatile political or economic situations. Anti-war protesters in Lebanon have boycotted Starbucks well before
the current Mideast crisis. Faced with possible terrorist attacks, the company had to close its retail stores in Israel. Up to 2004, Starbucks international operations ran losses particularly in
Japan, the largest market for the company outside the U.S. Since then the international group continues to improve its profitablity numbers quarterly. Starbucks also has had to deal with an
initial lack of acceptance from France's historic cafe culture, with older consumers frowning on a big U.S. coffee house chain with standardized disposable cups. Yet younger coffee drinkers in
France have joined American tourists in Paris to embrace such favourites as Starbucks caramel coffee. The company is aggressively expanding in China where Chinese traditionally prefer tea
Key to success in the People's Republic are coffee houses that empower China's emerging middle class to publicly display their new lifestyles and status while keeping Starbucks beverages as
affordable luxuries. Starbucks and its local joint venture partners will open retail outlets in India during 2007. Critics question whether middle-class Indians will support American-style coffee
houses, pointing to the cultural resistance that . forced Wal-Mart to close its stores in Germany, And The Winner Is... Starbucks has had to face issues in developing its international business
portfolio; all companies do. Starbucks has a successful track record much like baseball slugger Ty Cobb who rules as the player with a .366 career batting average, the highest ever. And yet for
almost two-thirds of his at-bats Cobb didn't get a hit. The same idea applies to Starbucks which shows an excellent overall success rate selling its products in international markets. What's
appealing about Starbucks is the fact that the company focuses on growth.profitable For example, Starbucks plans to aggressively cluster new stores in prime locations in the world's fastest
growing economies, specifically the nations that investment analysts refer to as BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China). Notably, Starbucks introduces its full range of products in phases, selling
coffee and other beverages including tea and juices through retail stores in 25 international countries. In addition to retail beverage sales, stores in 11 other countries including the United
Kingdom, Thailand, Canada and Chile also sell whole bean coffees, coffee-brewing equipment and merchandise. The coffee titan also selectively introduces specific products like its
ready-to-drink coffee beverages to specific countries like Japan, Taiwan and Korea to maximize profits. Starbucks has also made some progress in making its products more . friendly to the
environment As an investment, perhaps the question to savour while enjoying your next frappucino is when - not if - Starbucks stock price will ascend from its current price of $30 to $39
which would be more consistent with the stock's historical price-to-earnings ratio. Starbucks stock trades under the symbol SBUX on Nasdaq. Suite101 does not offer investment advice.
Instead, we seek to educate and inform our readers by writing about the latest trends in world trade. Armed with these insights, you are in a much better position to make your own decisions.
We encourage you to add your thoughts to our analysis by starting a discussion below.Note: The copyright of the article in is owned by . Permission to republish in print or online must be
granted by the author in writing.Starbucks Global Sales International Trade Leaders Daniel Workman Starbucks Global Sales