Browse > / / Trans Fat Vs Non-Trans In The Vegetarian Environment Home Vegetarianism Trans Fat Vs Non-Trans In The Vegetarian Environment Everyone knows that too much fat in your
body is unhealthy. Aside from becoming obese, it poses serious health risks that are indeed life-threatening. This is one of the few harmful elements that most vegetarians are trying to clear
away from by opting for a meatless diet, which are sources of cholesterol and saturated fats. On the other hand, some nutritionists also recommend having a considerable amount of fat
included in your diet. So, how do you create that balance? Fat Requirements for the Body Contrary to popular belief, fat plays an important role in your body. Therefore, it is important that you
also include sufficient amount of fat in your diet. But make sure not to have too much as to trigger deadly diseases. The key here is knowing how to create a balance so you get all the essential
nutrients. - It suffices your body with up to 9 calories per gram of fat. - It helps carry vitamins such as A, D, E, and K, which are all fat-soluble. - Some parts of your body such as hair, nails,
and skin need essential oils in order to maintain its growth and vitality. Fat provides these essential oils. Again, it is important to become aware of the type of fat consumed as it has dramatic
impact in your overall health condition. What is Trans-Fat? Trans fat is a common term for trans fatty acids, which is among the broad types of fats that are present in most foods. This type of
fat, however, is an unsaturated fatty acid so it is unlike cis fat. You will find trans fat mostly in milk or body fat of certain animals such as sheep or cows. Before, trans fats were mostly
consumed from animal products. However, it was recently revealed by a study that plant-based foods are also major contributors of trans fat. Therefore, beware of manufactured products such
as vegetable shortenings or margarine because they consist of artificial trans fat which are partially hydrogenated and may have 45% more trans fat than their total. Health Impact of Trans Fat
 The production of trans fat is achieved by turning liquid oils into solid substances, such as mentioned above are margarine and shortenings. They are commonly produce to help extend the
shelf life of most food products and used to enhance the flavor of foods. Take note of the following food types that contain trans fat: - some crackers - cookies - snack foods - vegetable
shortenings Since this contributes to raising your level of cholesterol, it can be considered as bad type of fat which can lead to more risks of heart disease. Different Types of Fat Fat
provides the source for converting energy needed by your body to perform daily activities. Meanwhile, it also aids in helping absorb essential vitamins like A, E, K, and carotenoids. However, it
is important to consume fat in moderate amounts only. That way, you can ensure that your body gets fat that it will need to grow and develop, while also maintaining a healthy well being. This
type of nutrient is most important for toddlers and infants as it assists in their growth process. Unsaturated fats, like monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are the healthier type of fats.
Still, they need to be consumed at moderate levels to ensure good health. Practical Ways to Consume Fat Since fat is an essential part of your diet, you need to consume it with caution in
order to make sure that you are getting only the required amount for your body. Here are a few practical ways to ensure healthy consumption of fat: Choose healthy alternatives to fat 0
instead of saturated or trans fat, you must opt for polyunsaturated or monounsaturated fats; these type of fats are healthier when taken in moderation and do not contribute to increasing your
cholesterol levels 11 good sources of these alternative fats are corn oil, soybean oil, fish, nuts, etc. Opt for vegetable oils or soft margarines 0] these have lower amounts of saturated fats as
compared to solid ones, including butter. Go for fish Oi they have lower saturated fats as compared to most meats, plus scientists are trying to analyze if the omega-3 fatty acids is indeed good
for your heart. Take note of your calorie intake C1 normal amounts of fat will have 9 calories per gram of fat. Tags: Related Articles Medical studies and evidence reveal that vegetarians are
comparably slimmer as compared to non-vegetarians. Meanwhile, cases of obesity among those who practice a vegetarian diet... Vegetarianism And Weight Loss If you are still in the process
of changing from a highly meaty diet to a vegetarian one, the switch can be difficult at the.... Vegetarian Diet - What Plants Provide Protein Up until today, peoples opinion about going
vegetarian remains split. It could either be one of two reasons. First, people are not ready to fully.... Lifelong Vegetarians - Infancy Through The Elderly To get the most nutrition out of your
fruit and vegetable diet, you need to ensure its freshness and quality. There are several contributors to.... Vegetarian Diet - The Importance Of Freshness Most people, especially
non-vegetarians, believe that a vegetarian's diet is very limited. Indeed, they think it is a way of punishing ones self by refusing.... Creating A Vegetarian Food Guide Other Posts