[] Subscribe To This Site ? If you think that's cool, try the software, or the online version at http://maps.google.com/ It requires a modern computer but will work for anywhere in the world. To
make the details visible on the earth picture, satellite technology requires an unimaginable number of Probably more than all the combined, but who knows. What is a Pixel? A tiny point of light
serving as the smallest unit used in constructing a video image. Just like on your computer screen. The word breaks down to cture ement, where is short for . This is where the concentration of
data comes in to play. Resolution defines the limit of the detail available in any recording, video, audio or otherwise. It can be expressed in scale units such as inch to pixels or kilometres per
pixel. Small objects cannot be and to see something as little as your house picture satellite equipment needs to be specifically designed for this purpose. For geostationary equipment thousands
of miles above the earth, give the best resolution. It's about a thousand metres square on the equator directly below the vehicle. This minimum size will increase to double its size, or half the
resolution, for more distant points on the earth. This device can see about as far as approximately 70-degree latitudes. The IR and water vapour resolutions are eight and fourteen times worse
than visible spectrums respectively. But they still provide valuable information. Because they provide different information. The NOAA polar orbiting satellites fly much closer to the planet. They
have better resolutions, up to 1 km for all channels. The house picture satellite imagery shown above uses U.S. Geological Survey data rather than NOAA. An average home measures about 20
meters long. To clearly see a house picture satellite pixels need to be less than this size, much smaller than what the current weather satellites use. this site for more information now. Tiny
Pixels: see your house picture satellite photo. If you live in the States, you can see your photo here. Give this photo satellite search site a go. I tried it on the Golden Gate Bridge, from the
California maps and could see individual cars. house picture satellite