Stamina Deluxe Programmable Elliptical Model 55-1779 Stamina'sProgrammable Elliptical is an affordable way to work out at home on one of the most popular machines in the gym. The
Programmable Elliptical protects your joints yet is one of the best activities you can do to aid in weight loss and get in shape. The low impact aerobic workout firms and tones your buttocks,
hamstrings, quadriceps, thighs and calves while improving the condition of your heart and lungs. Choose from 17 pre-programmed workouts with 16 intensity levels to be sure you are working
out within your target heart rate zone to improve your cardiovascular fitness and maximize your fat bumning potential. The elliptical motion is a unique blend of stair climbing, cycling, skiing,
and walking all together in one movement. In forward motion, your quadriceps, buttocks, lower abdominal, hips and thighs are targeted. In reverse motion, your hamstrings, lower buttocks,
hips, thighs, and calves are targeted. The Programmable Elliptical is designed to give you a smooth, quiet workout and to fit in most homes and rolls for easy portability. FEATURES: Electronic
Performance Monitor Displays Time, Speed, Distance, Heart Rate, Pulse Recovery, Watts, and Calories Burned 16 Workout Intensity Levels with Electromagnetic Resistance 17 Pre-programmed
Workouts Padded, Dual-action Handlebars for Upper Body Workout Foam Padded Hand Grip Hand Heart Rate Sensor in Hand Grip Water Bottle Holder with Water Bottle Attractive Pewter
Gray Housing Floor Protectors Safeguard Your Workout Area and Prevent Skidding Assembled Size: 61"H x 23"W x 64"L When Fully Extended 14.5" Stride Length Carton Size: 50.5"L x
15.25"W x 21.25"H_ Shipping & Terms: This item is shipped via . Allow 7 to 10 days for delivery. is required on shipments delivered outside of Louisiana.No Sales Tax If the merchandise
appears to be damaged in any way, please have the driver make a note of the damage. This will aid in the return/replacement process. It is not the driver's responsibility to bring freight into
your home, garage, etc. Drivers do not assist with unpacking or setup. Delivery is not available to Alaska, Hawaii and Canada. This item cannot be shipped to an .APO, FPO or PO Box This
page cannot be copied in whole or in part without the written consent of Bayou Fitness. Copyright 2007, Bayou Fitness Products