This category in other languages: Italian (21) _- Well-organised gazetteer and bibliography of the Roman army in Britain, by Peter Green. Maps, photographs of selected sites. Typology,
organisation of the Roman army, terminology. Britannia _- Bill Thayer's extensive collection of materials on ancient Rome. Includes a gazetteer of sites in the Roman Empire with annotated
photographs of Roman monuments, classical texts and 19th-century archaeological and topographical works. Lacus Curtius - The French Ministry of Culture provides a virtual visit to the Roman
city: model, plans, photographs and description. Also a guide, bibliography and visitor information. Ancient Vienne - Devoted to the ancient Roman road through the Balkans via Egnatia and to
the ancient landscape of Albania, Macedonia and Greece. [English, Italian, Macedonian and German] The Egnatia Way - This section of Bill Thayer's huge Lacus Curtius site provides many
photographs of cities and monuments of the ancient Roman world, some with detailed commentary. A Gazetteer of the Roman World - The Kelsey Museum of Archaeology describes the
discoveries of the excavation by the University of Michigan 1924-1935 of this village inhabited from the 3rd century BC to the Sth century AD. Karanis: An Egyptian Town in Roman Times - Dr
Hafed Walda reports on the latest excavations of this amazingly preserved Roman city on the North African coast, a UNESCO World Heritage site. Lepcis Magna - The Roman Empire in Africa -
The city played an important role as a religious centre as the sacred city of Augustus in the Callaecia. Lucus Augusti: The Sacred City of Augustus - Will offer a tour of an exhibition dedicated to
the ancient cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii. Includes details of the exhibits. [Italian and English] MAV - Virtual Archaeological Museum - Online atlas of Roman pottery in Britain and westem
Europe, listing the wares by class or source, from Paul Tyers, author of Roman Pottery in Britain. Potsherd - Describes the excavation of the castellum at Valkenburg (Praetoria Agrippinae) in
Holland, with many detailed pictures, distribution maps, and searchable databases. Praetoria Agrippinae Roman Information Site - Robert Daniels-Dwyer provides a bibliography and links on
the archaeology of buildings in the Roman Empire, particularly Roman Italy and North Africa. Roman Buildings Archaeology - An index of Banassac Samian ware by Allard Mees, with
bibliographies and links on Samian, Roman brick, amphoras, Corinth ceramics, Megarian bowls and terracottas. Roman Ceramics - Re-creations of Hellenistic and Roman cast mosaic glass
vessels by Mark Taylor and David Hill, with discussions on ancient glassmaking techniques Roman Glassmakers - Sally Pointer explores Roman makeup through experimental archaeology.
Reconstructions of early cosmetics, perfumes and implements used to transform a modem woman into a Roman fashion victim. Roman Makeover - An online display of ancient Roman surgical
instruments excavated from the House of the Surgeon at Pompeii. Roman Medical Instruments - A weblog presenting Roman archeology news. Roman News and Archeology - A reconstructed
Roman Villa Rustica from the ist to the 3rd century A.D. Description of the site, walking tour and panoramic views. Roman Open Air Museum Hechingen-Stein - The oldest road map in
existence - Peutinger's Tabula, a 12th-century copy of a Roman road map. Each section is accompanied by related links. The Roman Roads - History, geography and tourist information
Indudes photographs of archaeological sites. The Roman Roads in the Mediterranean Region - Southampton University investigates the context of the Roman towns sites of southern Spain,
taking the known sites of Seville Province, Andalucia, as a case study. Roman Towns Project - Publishes "Journal of Roman Studies' and Britannia and monographs (abstracts online). Activities,
lectures, grants. Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies - Romans would go to any lengths to keep the empire's subversive elements out of the way, even cutting 30-meter granite
columns on a mountain, reports Jenny Jobbins in Al-Ahram Weekly. Stoned in the Eastern Desert - From the Telegraph, dazzling Roman mosaics have been discovered by archaeologists on the
site of an ancient villa in Sicily. Roman Mosaic Treasure Unearthed (July 10, 2003) - From New Scientist, stunningly well-preserved cosmetics canister, containing a white cream, has been
unearthed at the site of an ancient Roman temple in London. Ancient Roman Cosmetic Cream Unearthed (July 8, 2003) - From the Leicestersher Mercury, secrets of Roman Leicester have
been uncovered at the Newarke, where 31 bodies have been unearthed from an ancient cemetery. Bones Discovery Lifts Lid on Roman Secrets (November 27, 2002) - From the Gardian,
archaeologists have unearthed a Roman "motorway" wider than the A road which runs along the same route today. Roman Chariotway Outflanked Modem Road (October 5, 2002) - A
re-analysis of Roman Bath's iconography led Martin Henig to envision the spa as a place used both by Romans and aspiring native Celts. Article in Archaeology. See You at the Spa! (January
28, 2000)