Print Email Bookmark Forearm Supports Reduce Upper Body Pain Linked To Computer Use 1 Providing forearm support is an effective intervention to prevent musculoskeletal disorders of
the upper body and aids in reducing upper body pain associated with computer work, according to a study in The British Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine.ScienceDaily (Apr.
18, 2006) See also: Stretching Reported in the April 18 issue, the study shows that use of large arm boards significantly reduces neck and shoulder pain as well as hand, wrist and forearm
pain. "Based on these outcomes, employers should consider providing employees who use computers with appropriate forearm support," said lead author David Rempel, MD, MPH, director of
the ergonomics program at San Francisco General Hospital and professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. Study findings also show arm boards and ergonomics
training provide the most protective effect, with a statistically significant reduction in both neck and shoulder pain and right hand/wrist/forearm pain in comparison to the control group, who did
not receive forearm support. The boards reduced the risk of incidence of neck and shoulder disorders by nearly half. According to the authors, musculoskeletal disorders of the neck, shoulders
and arms are a common occupational health problem for individuals involved in computer-based customer service work. Specific disorders include wrist tendonitis, elbow tendonitis and muscle
strain of the neck and upper back. These health problems account for a majority of lost work time in call centers and other computer-based jobs. "Extended hours of mouse or keyboard use
and sustained awkward postures, such as wrist extension, are the most consistently observed risk factors for musculoskeletal disorders," Rempel added. The one year, randomized study
evaluated the effects of two workstation interventions on the musculoskeletal health of call center employees -- a padded forearm support and a trackball. The forearm support is commonly
called an arm board and attaches to the top front edge of the work surface. The trackball replaces a computer mouse and uses a large ball for cursor motion. The researchers tested employees
from two customer service center sites of a large health maintenance organization. Employees had to perform computer based customer service work for a minimum of 20 hours per week in
order to qualify for the study. For one year, 182 participants filled out a weekly questionnaire to assess pain level in their hands, wrists, arms, upper backs and shoulders. Participants were
randomized into four groups, each receiving a different intervention: ergonomics training, training plus a trackball, training plus forearm support, or training with both a trackball and forearm
support. Outcome measures included weekly pain severity scores and diagnosis of a new musculoskeletal disorder in the upper extremities or the neck-shoulder region based on physical
examination performed by a physician. The trackball intervention had no effect on right upper extremity disorders. "The trackball was difficult for some participants to use," said Rempel.
"Employees with hand pain may want to try them, but they should stop fit is difficult to use." The researchers also performed a return-on-investment calculation for the study to estimate the
effects of ergonomic interventions on productivity and costs. Their calculations predicted a full return of armboard costs for employers within 10.6 months of purchase. "Based on this study, it
is in the best interest of the company and the employees to provide forearm supports and training," Rempel concluded. In the study, the authors also outline other ergonomic-specific tasks
that employees who use computers can do to relieve pain on their own. They suggest employees take scheduled breaks, maintain an erect posture, adjust chair height so thighs are parallel to
the floor, adjust arm support and work surface height so the forearms are parallel to the floor, adjust the mouse and keyboard location to minimize the reach, and adjust monitor height so that
the center of the monitor is approximately 15 degrees below the visual horizon. Co-authors of the study include Niklas Krause, MD, PhD; Robert Goldberg, MD; Mark Hudes, PhD; and Gary
Urbiel Goldner, MS, from the division of occupational and environmental medicine, UCSF; and Douglas Benner, MD, occupational health, Kaiser Permanente of Northern California. The study
was supported by a grant from the Centers for Disease Control/National Institutes for Occupational Safety and Health. Rempel has done consulting work for Logitech Corporation, which markets
the trackball used in this study. .Adapted from materials provided by , via , a service of AAAS University of California - San Francisco EurekAlert! Email or share this story: Need to cite this
story in your essay, paper, or report? Use one of the following formats: APA MLA Related Stories Oi Acupressure (applying pressure with the thumbs or fingertips to the same points on the
body stimulated in acupuncture) seems to be more effective in reducing low back pain than physical therapy, ... > Acupressure Relieves Low Back Pain (Feb. 17, 2006) read more (1 Women
are at least twice as likely as men to develop some musculoskeletal disorders of the upper body. That's the finding of scientists at Ohio State University who re-analyzed data from 56... >
Women At Least Twice As Likely To Get Some Musculoskeletal Disorders (July 22, 2004) read more 0 Mr. Jones has chronic back pain. He cannot sleep, bend or stand for long periods of time
because of the pain. He cannot lose weight because the pain keeps him from exercising. Jones is a case study ... > More Than A Pill: Complementary Medicine Can Help With Chronic Pain
(Oct. 10, 2007) read more i Cardiac syndrome X, a special subform of non-cardiac chest pain with abnormal electrocardiographic but normal coronary angiogram, originates mostly from.
disorders of the esophagus and stomach. A... > What Is The Etiology Of Cardiac Syndrome X? (Nov. 27, 2008) read more O Calcium supplements have very little benefit for preventing
fractures in childhood and later adulthood, concludes a study in the British Medical ... > Calcium Supplements Fail To Prevent Bone Fractures In Children (Oct. 1, 2006) read more Number of
stories in archives: 44,032 Find with keyword(s): Enter a keyword or phrase to search ScienceDaily's archives for related news topics, the latest news stories, reference articles, science
videos, images, and books.