A simple from 1947 through to 1996. Events in Land Rover History timeline of Land Rover vehicles through 1997 from Land Rover. A history Another account of as it appeared in various
Canadian newspapers. Fifty Years of Land-Rover Production Chassis numberson Land Rovers can lead to you obtaining quite a bit of information on your vehicle. On the other hand, if you own
something like a IIA where the serial number prefix didn't change for years what you learn may be limited. However, these tables form a guide to seeing if your serial number is actually correct
and what you may have (Is it a CKD? et cetera). Under these pages are specific build information for Land Rovers where known for specific serial numbers sequences. or what does your
chassis number mean. A page on how to take your serial number of VIN and find out what it says about your vehicle General Information/Decoding Serial numbers by vehicle type or so you
really think your Land Rover was built then, eh... Serial number suffixes by year What they are & what changed by Chassis, axle, gearbox, or engine from 1961 through 1971 Series IIA serial
number suffixes A fairly complete list of NAS Defenders, their VIN number and LR sequence numbers VIN Registry for NAS Defenders on your particular serial number of VIN for civilian and
military vehicles. Where to write for certificates, or information - Physical characteristics (height, weights, et cetera) and other data on various Land Rovers. Dimensions and Production (by
model) . How many of various type of Land Rovers were produced in a given year. Production data (by year) Advertising and Sales - A growing selection of various print Land Rover
advertisements and brochures that have appeared over the years. This selection includes advertisements from the Series One through the Discovery. While centered on North American print
ads, there are some from other markets. Advertising Land Rover . - A letter from Land Rover to its' New Zealand dealer network in 1966 offering advice to salesmen on how to deal with
competing sales from the Austin Gypsy. Land Rover vs. Austin Gypsy