HORSE DANCED IN THE STREET You See he Was a Circus Horse Once and Had Never Forgotten. Deep down, in that part of Barney's anatomy which would be called his soul, if he were a man
instead of only a big, broad-backed, bay horse, there has slumbered through the long years of his servitude as a truck horse a spark of the old-time pride and fire which made him arch his neck
and prance about the ring when he held a post of honor among the circus horses of Baum & Bailey's Show. That the tiny spark had not fled out altogether would never have been known
except to Barney's driver, John Murphy, had it not been for a wheezy hurdy-gurdy whose one tune was a jig to which Bamey had often praced into the ring. But it came out yesterday. Barney
and his mate, Tom, a huge black horse, pulled one of Farr & Co.'s trucks around the comer of Beaver Street into Broad yesterday afternoon. A hand-organ was playing almost directly in his
path, and Barney priced up his ears. Then he turned his head to look at the hand organ. Presently, although he seemed hardly to realize himself just what he was doing, he began to dance.
From unconscious habit, he arched his neck and bent his age-stiffened knees in time to the music. Tom stood horrified. He could not understand the strange actions of his mate, and tried to
pull him along about his business. But Barney was not to be denied. He pranced and capered until at last, when John Murphy found that he could not stop him, he just sat back on his seat and
watched. Tom, imbued with some of his mate's spirit, began to try to dance, too. Curb brokers and employees of Wall Street houses flocked to the street on their way home and stopped to
watch the strange performance. Their numbers swelled to more than 200 and still Barney and Tom danced. At last a policeman who had seen the gathering crowd burst his way through it and
angrily ordered away the organ grinder. Then when the music stopped Barney and Tom stopped, too. "Yep," remarked John Murphy as he gathered his reins in his hands, "it beats all how a
horse will remember things. And some folks says that they ain't got no souls. Why, Barney was a circus horse once and he just couldn't stand that old music. Tom did his best, but of course he
wasn't never eddicated like Barney. Go long there yer shameless old critter." Before the crowd drifted away more than $7 had been collected. It was given to the organ grinder in payment for
the sport his music had furnished. Posted by Lynda Polk at April 25, 2008 01:34 PM