The interview demonstrates that you: Speak well and are a normal, professional person; Took the time to research the employer's company and this specific position; Have substantial past
experience that proves you're qualified for the job. If you have an interview, then your cover letter and resume have already persuaded the employer that could be the right candidate. Your
task during the interview is to strengthen that impression. You should exude professionalism, confidence, and competence. Research To build your confidence, do some research. First,
research yourself: be ready to tell a complete, detailed story about each of your good qualities and past accomplishments. For example, expect to be asked about your communication abilities.
Have an example ready about a time you communicated well with good results. Have a number of stories drawn from more than one experience. Second, research the company: this puts you
at a somewhat equal level with the interviewer. You'll understand where the interviewer is coming from because you'll know how the company views itself and how it's doing at the moment.
Research also prepares you for the inevitable final stage of the interview, when you are expected to ask a few questions about the organization. Your questions about the company can take the
form, "I know this much about X from my research, but can you tell me more." Practice Your qualifications seem clear enough in your head, but can you really talk about them? Take time to
sit down with a friend and practice. Your friend can press you for an example ("prove it!") if you're being too vague. Alternately, you can meet with a career advisor for a mock interview. Call
the Career Development Center ahead of time to set up an appointment. Our number is (812) 855-5234. Once you're assigned an advisor, send your job ad and resume ahead of time for the
best fake interview. For a thorough breakdown of types of interview and some sample questions, read the job interview handout in our . You can also come to the Center discuss the job and
interview strategies ina . document library drop-in advising appointment