DIAGNOSIS & TREATMENT Learning you have cancer is a little like being dropped into a strange country where you don't speak the language. You may not even know what "biopsy" means
when you're first diagnosed, but within a few weeks, you'll be speaking medicalese like a native. If you're having symptoms of breast cancer or have something suspicious that has shown up
on a previous test, your doctor will want to follow up. Your doctor is likely to ask you questions concerning these things: Your medical history Your family history of cancer Any exposure to
other risk factors, such as high doses of radiation If you're having symptoms that are like those of cervical cancer, your doctor will want to know why. Your doctor will ask some questions
regarding the following: Medical history How old you were when you first had sexual intercourse If you have had unprotected sex Other risk factors such as a history of genital warts or
human papillomas virus (HPV) infection If you're having symptoms that might be caused by cancer in the uterus, your doctor will want to check further. Your doctor is likely to ask you
questions about the following: Your health history Your reproductive history, such as when you had your first period, how many times you've been pregnant, and whether you have gone
through menopause Your family history of cancer Lifestyle habits, such as what you eat Many ovarian cancers symptoms do not show themselves until the late stages. If you have any or if
your doctor found a mass during a routine pelvic exam, he or she is likely to ask questions about the following: Medical history Prompt attention to signs and symptoms is the best approach to
diagnose most thyroid cancers early. Thyroid cancer can cause any of the following local signs or symptoms: a lump or swelling in the neck, sometimes growing rapidly a pain in the front of
the neck, sometimes going up to the ears hoarseness or other voice change that does not go away trouble swallowing breathing problems (feeling as if one were "breathing through a
straw") a cough that continues and is not due to a cold Since it is known smoking tobacco causes most cases of lung cancer, women who smoke or have smoked are at the highest risk.If you
are having symptoms, your doctor will ask you some questions regarding the following: Medical History If you have symptoms of colorectal cancer, your doctor will want to know why. To find
out, your doctor is likely to ask you questions about the following things. Your family history of cancer Your lifestyle habits, including your diet, whether you smoke, and how active you are
Your doctor may also ask for tests to check for colorectal cancer. Some of these tests are the same ones that are used for screening people who have no symptoms. The doctor could ask for
any of these tests.