Why Go Natural? Natural search engine optimization usually gives you a much higher return on investment than pay per click, because once the maximum daily budget for your pay-per-click
campaign has been reached your site simply put...disappears. Here are some of the benefits of Natural Search Engine Optimization.Natural Search Engine Optimization More searchers choose
the natural search engine results versus the pay per click ads, so you'll get much more traffic for less. One of the biggest factors to improving your rankings with natural search engine
optimization is by boosting your "Link Popularity" by acquiring or paying for links that point to your web site. These links give you lasting results by giving you top rankings and traffic from the
search engines. Plus, the links themselves will provide a significant boost in long term traffic. FinSEO will work with you on defining relevant link partnerships. Note: The biggest weakness of
natural search engine optimization is the time required to generate links and "tweak" your web pages and keywords to get receive high rankings. It can literally take 6 months to 1 year to see
the benefits of your Natural Search Engine Optimization campaign. The biggest benefit of pay per click is the fact that it will provide you with an immediate boost of qualified visitors, lead
and sales giving you fast results within just hours or days. In fact, a pay per click advertising program is your best option if you seek fast results and a good return on investment while you are
waiting for your Search Engine Optimization (SEO) program to "ramp up." Depending on your traffic goals, you can budget $100 or $100,000. PPCSEs also give you the added benefits of being
able to quickly test your web site and track your conversion rates (leads, opt-ins, and sales) and turning keywords (visitors) on and off easily. So, as a short term strategy pay per click gives
you the clear advantage over Natural Search Engine Optimization. But, the disadvantage is the cost involved. Depending on the market demand for your keywords and clicks, your PPCSE
campaign can generate tons of traffic and can cost hundreds, even thousands per day. We recommend combining the short-term benefits of a PPC campaign and the long-term benefits of
Natural Search Engine Optimization for an overall greater ROI Pay Per Click Campaigns