Special Congress Representing Involved Bulletin Editors (S.C.R.I.B.E.) S.C.R.I.B.E.'s Purpose S.C.R.I.B.E. is an international organization of bulletin editors of amateur gem, mineral, and earth
science societies. S.C.R.I.B.E, exists to: improve communication and public relations among gem and mineral societies, their federations, and other related organizations through involved
bulletin editors; and advise and assist new editors with old ideas and old editors with new ideas while giving all editors a share in all ideas for publishing better bulletins. Benefits of
S.C.R.LB.E, Membership S.C.R..8.. provides many valuable benefits to its members: S.C.R.I.B.E. members receive the organization's bulletin, , four times a year... SCRIBE Read a sample
issue of SCRIBE A Membership/Contact list containing the names, addresses, society affiliations, and email addresses of bulletin editors worldwide is provided to each S.C.R.I.8.. member
annually. In addition to occasional regional meetings, S.C.R.1.B.. conducts a half-day in the town of Quartzsite, Arizona. View . Annual Editors Symposium Scenes From the 26th Annual
Meeting and Editors' Symposium (2007) S.C.R.I.B.E. prepares a yearly CD-ROM which contains a compilation of newsletters, articles, clip art, and computer programs to assist old and new
editors alike. This CD, along with the yearly Membership Roster, will be mailed FREE to all paid-up Members by the end of February or early March. NEW members will also receive a FREE copy
of the CD compilation as a welcoming gift. Additional copies of the 2007 2-disk CD may be purchased for $3.00, including postage, from the SCRIBE Treasurer, Bob Hughes; PO Box 1633; East
Ellijay, GA 30539-0028. Copies of the older, 2002 through 2006, single-disk CDs are available for $2.00 each, postpaid. Alternatively, a DVD compilation of all CDs, 2002 through 2007, can be
purchased for $3.00, postpaid. Note that your computer must be equipped with a DVD drive in order to read the DVD compilation. If you have questions regarding the CDs or DVD, you may
contact Bob by phone at 706-635-8249 or via email at . bjhughes@ellijay.com S.C.R.1.B.E. also provides a Bulletin Evaluation Service to its members. This non-competitive judging, a test run,
provides valuable advice to help editors improve the quality of their bulletins before they enter their Regional Federation competition. For more information, please contact . Carolyn Weinberger
(cscrystals2@verizon.net) S.C.R.ILB.E, Membership Membership in S.C.R.I.B.E. is open to past, present, and prospective editors; assistant editors; publishers; writers; and anyone interested
in the preparation of bulletins for amateur gem, mineral, lapidary, fossil, and earth science societies. S.C.R.I.B.. dues are $6 for an annual individual membership and $8 for dual membership.
Payment must be made in U.S. funds. S.C.R.I.B.E. Officers and Committee Chairpersons The current (2007-2008) Officers and Committee Chairpersons for S.C.R.IB.E. are (click name to
send e-mail): President: