Discover how you can help support Mayo Clinic. Adjust type size: offers M.D. degree training and, in cooperation with , a seven-year M.D.-Ph.D. program. Mayo Clinic provides grants for these
programs to Arizona and Florida residents. Jacksonville, Florida Since Mayo Clinic first opened its Jacksonville campus in 1986, the Mayo tradition of academic excellence has continued.

Medical education at the Jacksonville campus has grown rapidly and today includes medical student clerkships, residency and fellowship programs, continuing education courses, allied health
training opportunities and much more. Undergraduate Medical Education Since Mayo Clinic first opened its Jacksonville campus in 1986, the Mayo tradition of academic excellence has
continued. Medical education at the Jacksonville campus has grown rapidly and today includes medical student clerkships, residency and fellowship programs, continuing education courses,
allied health training opportunities and much more. Undergraduate Medical Education In addition, Jacksonville hosts fourth-year from Mayo Medical School and other national and intemational
medical schools. medical student clerkships Graduate Medical Education (Residencies and Fellowships) offers outstanding in a broad range of specialties and subspecialties. Mayo School of
Graduate Medical Education residency and fellowship programs at Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville Continuing Medical Education In addition, Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville offers a variety of clinician
and faculty programs including: - short-term, individually tailored educational experiences (limited to observation only) offered to US and intemational physicians. Visiting Clinician Program -
presentations from outstanding individuals from the medical/scientific community outside Mayo to complement the educational programs of the institution. Visiting Faculty Program - over 20
conferences are offered to Mayo staff and trainees each month.Didactic Conferences Mayo School of Health Sciences (Allied health sciences programs) provides exceptional in a variety of
dynamic, rewarding health care professions. Mayo School of Health Science allied health training programs at Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville Library Services Mayo Clinic Jacksonville has clinical
and research libraries that are accessible 24 hours per day for study. These libraries contain over 2000 biomedical texts and 320 journal subscriptions. In addition, these libraries have access to
the extensive Mayo Libraries on-line catalog, computer literature searching (MEDLINE) and Internet services. This integrated network allows for the sharing of information between all Mayo
Clinic libraries. Visit our Schools