Lighthouses on Lake Superior I took a trip around Lake Superior August 31-September 5, 1998, beginning at Munising, Michigan and following M-28 east to I-75, north to Canada, 17 from
Sault Ste. Marie to Thunder Bay, and then south on 61, and trips to Upper Michigan during 1998 and 99. Here are some lighthouses I saw on those trips. You may click on the thumbnail photos
to see a larger version of them. The Eagle River Lighthouse located in Eagle River is now a private residence. This is the Marquette Lighthouse located behind the Maritime Museum along
Lake Shore Drive. This is the Munising Lighthouse located in downtown Munising along M-28. This is the rear range light located in Munising two blocks in from the Munising Lighthouse. It
was used to line up with the lighthouse. Point Iroquois Lighthouse is located on Pt. Iroquois about 7.5 miles north of Brimley . (see sign) Sand Hills Lighthouse, also known as 5 Mile Point
Lighthouse, is located about 4 miles southwest of Eagle River. Whitefish Point Lighthouse, Michigan Whitefish Point Lighthouse is located north of Paradise on Whitefish Point. This sign
indicates Whitefish Point Lighthouse was built in 1849. Somewhere it said it was the first lighthouse on Lake Superior. This light was visible from Highway 17 between the Pancake River and
Alona Bay. Thunder Bay Lighthouse, Ontario This lighthouse is out in Thunder Bay, just off the city of Thunder Bay at the marina. You can see a couple of sailboats out in the bay. Grand
Marias Light, Minnesota The Grand Marias Light is in Grand Marias at the end of a breakwater. It is visible from the park along the lake. _ Split Rock Light house, South of Beaver Bay,
Minnesota This lighthouse is located in the Split Rock Lighthouse State Park on M-61 between Beaver Bay and Castle Danger. _, Two Harbors, Minnesota Agate Bay Light The Agate Bay
Lighthouse is located in Two Harbors. It is easy to find by following the signs to a little park on the north side of town. Two Harbors East Breakwater is located in the same park as the Agate
Bay Lighthouse above.