By 6/15/07 3:08 PM Cara Degette Amid the carnage of newsroom cuts all over Colorado in recent months, one blogger's response to Jim Spencer's farewell column today carries an ominous
message that best would be acknowledged by the suits upstairs: To wit: Carving writing talent out of newsrooms will not help sagging circulation and advertising one bit. I will no longer to [...]
 By 6/12/07 2:59 PM Cara Degette Whatever you call them - layoffs, buyouts, loss of jobs - the slashing continues inside the brand new downtown headquarters of the Denver Newspaper
Agency. Five more Denver Post casualties were announced just today, including the departures of high profile names like columnist Jim Spencer and longtime reporter and editor Todd Engdahl
(Others to go include [...] By 3/23/07 1:40 PM Wendy Norris Sandra Fish and Brian Conway contributed to this story. Word of the Rocky Mountain News buyout offer for long-time staff fueled
speculation about who may be on the voluntary chopping block. Colorado Confidentials research found some familiar and well-respected names among the list. By 3/21/07 3:30 PM Wendy
Norris Poynter Online posted a memo from John Temple, editor, publisher and president of the Rocky Mountain News, announcing 20 voluntary separation packages to employees who meet
tenure and age credentials, in addition to a newsroom restructuring plan. A newsroom meeting was scheduled for 4:30 p.m. MDT on Wednesday. UPDATE: According to sources at the paper,
the buyout [...] By 2/9/07 10:14 AM Cara Degette The Denver dailies are filled today with the meltdown over Amendment 41. Lawsuits. Reports of Jared Polis going to the capitol, wigging
out and threatening House Minority Leader Mike May - which he describes as another poorly worded moment in a clear dig at Polis poorly worded amendment. And on, and on. By 8/9/06
4:49 PM Erin Rosa A response from the Rocky Mountain News is detailed bellow. It was primary night. Parties were being held, candidates were determining their fates, and the Rocky
Mountain News was declaring the wrong winner in the Sth congressional district.