Generating Business GETTING YOUR INITIAL WORK There are many ways for you to obtain work. We will cover several of them. Even if you are totally experienced, you can start out almost
immediately in this lucrative field. Just follow the steps listed below. Subcontracting is a term that implies the fact that you are providing services for someone, but you are not their employee.
This means that you will be responsible for paying your own taxes. There are some distinct advantages to this. To become a sub contractor, you will need to register your own business name
(we covered that in chapter 1). This will give you some unique tax advantages. (It is in your best interest to consult your attorney and accountant before making any legal or tax related
decisions. Subcontracting Most entertainment companies will provide you with all of the training that you need. They will send you out as a helper for one of their DJ/entertainers. This will give
you a unique advantage. You will get paid to train. The company will show you how to work the sound system while the Di/entertainer does his/her thing. Make sure that you pay attention to
everything that the DJ/entertainer does. Take notes. If he plays songs that work very well together, write their names down. If he says or does something that gets a good response, write that
down as well. Remember, this is training. You want to be doing his job, that is where all of the money is. So take your training seriously. Investing In Equipment There are two ways that you
can subcontract work through entertainment companies. Once you feel that you are experienced enough to graduate from the role of assistant to that of a mobile Di/entertainer, you will have a
very important decision in front of you. You will have to decide if you want to invest in your own set of equipment. This will be an expense. But, it will be an expense that will pay itself off fairly
quickly as long as you use the equipment for work. There is no need to purchase your own set of equipment yet, if you don't want to. In fact it will be to your advantage not to purchase until
you have had the opportunity to use many different pieces of equipment. This will give you a feel of what you like and what you don't like. Most companies will give you a set of equipment to
use on jobs that they send you on. This will be reflected in your pay. You will obviously make less money, but you will not have the added expense of paying for equipment. It balances out.
Subcontracting work and not owning your own sound system will put you in a powerful position. It will allow you to test the waters of the fastest rising business in the country, while getting
paid, with no financial investment on your part at all! Use this to your advantage. When you are ready to make the investment in your own sound system, you will be well educated by having
worked with others already. Make sure that you purchase top of the line gear. You do not want any problems on jobs. Bad news travels fast. You will be using this equipment several times a
week. Make sure that it can handle that type of use. The only investment that you will need to make to maximize your profit potential, is in training. Remember, we are combining the mobile
DJ industry with the entertainment field. Many of the people that you will assist in the beginning of your career will be strictly DJs. They may not even have cordless microphones. Don not
emulate these people, but do lear from them. Any investment that you make in training yourself to be a more effective entertainer and party motivator will be money well spent. You see, the
more that you do that is unique, and different, the more people will need you. Why? Because others don't do what you do. This means more money for you! Once you have your equipment,
you will be able to start making even more money. Now you won't have to use the company owned system. You can still take the subcontracted work for higher pay now, or you can go work for
yourself. The smartest way would actually be a combination of the two. This thought will lead us into the next part of your training, which is