HOME SPEECHES & ARTICLES The following documents are in PDF format, and require Adobe Acrobat Reader. If you do not have Adobe Acrobat reader installed, you may . download it here
 Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation Celebrates 35 Years At an historic gathering of all the Foundation's directors, both past and current, and of present staff, the Foundation celebrated its 35th
anniversary of philanthropy beyond check writing. 2008 David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award Deborah Hessler(s presentation of the Youth in Philanthropy Award to Kuranda
Robertson at the AFP National Philanthropy Day Breakfast of November 6, 2008. Childrens Campaign Opening Remarks President of Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, David Odahowski,
opens the 2008 Truth Tour Town Hall Meeting at Orlando City Hall on October 9, 2008. _AFP's 2008 Think Tank on Fundraising Introduction On October 7th, David A. Odahowski, the Edyth
Bush Charitable FoundationCis President and CEO, welcomed participants to the 2008 AFP Think Tank on Fundraising in Orlando, Florida.  Crummer Graduate School of Business August 2008
Commencement Address David Odahowski, the Foundation's President and CEO, was honored to deliver the Commencement Address to the graduating class of Rollins College Roy E. Crummer
Graduate School of Business this past August. . Watch Video Welcome to the Benevon Sustainability Conference David A. Odahowski, the FoundationCis President and CEO, introduced by
Terty Axelrod, Founder and CEO of Benevon, has the privilege of welcoming conference goers to the July 25, 2008 Benevon Sustainability Conference. 2008 Annual Convention of Polish
American Priests Association David Odahowski was honored to speak to the gathering of 100 priests of Polish descent at the annual convention of Polish American Priests Association in
Orlando, Florida in early April, 2008. Dedication of Lake CountyCIs Community and Nonprofit Resource Center Remarks at the dedication of Lake CountyXs Community and Nonprofit
Resource Center by Deborah Hessler the FoundationCs Program Officer and Corporate Secretary, on February 27, 2008, in Clermont, Florida. Rick Walsh Elected to the Edyth Bush Charitable
Foundation Board of Directors The Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation announces the recent election of Rick Walsh to serve as a member of it's Board of Directors. 2007 David R. Roberts
Youth in Philanthropy Award David Odahowski's presentation of the Youth in Philanthropy Award to Corey Warner at the AFP National Philanthropy Day Breakfast of November 8, 2007. Edyth
Bush Charitable Foundation supports disaster relief with contributions to Red Cross & Catholic Charities of Central Florida In an effort to support those affected by the February 2, 2007
tornadoes and extreme weather, The Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation has made unrestricted contributions of $50,000 to the Red Cross of Central Florida and $25,000 to Catholic Charities of
Central Florida. Extra Credit Campaign Launch David Odahowski's comments to the press at the launch of the Extra Credit Campaign on February 1, 2007 in Orlando, Florida. The Edyth
Bush Charitable Foundation names Jerry Hilbrich new Chairman of the Board The Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation announces the recent election of its new Chairman, Gerald F. (Jerry)
Hilbrich, _ Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation Awards Nearly $2.8 Million In Grants In 2006. The Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation continued its mission of providing nonprofit programs and
grant making designed to help people help themselves by awarding $2.795 million in grants during its fiscal year 2006. _AFPLIs David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award and H. Clifford
Lee Award David A. OdahowskiCs presentation of the David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award to the Imperial Dance Company at the AFP National Philanthropy Day Awards Ceremony in
Orlando, Florida on November 15, 2006. Included are Mr. OdahowskiCis remarks about the inaugural presentation of the H. Clifford Lee Award made later in the program. A Life Well Spent: A
Eulogy H. Clifford LeeCs Eulogy, delivered by David Odahowski, at Mr. LeeCs Memorial Service on August 31, 2006 at Knowles Memorial Chapel on the Rollins College campus. _ Florida's
"Dean of Philanthropy" Continues His Legacy Through Bequest Even after his death, FloridaLls Dean of Philanthropy H. Clifford Lee will continue to make an impact on area charities. Please
click on the link to see the 8/30/06 press release. Florida Loses "Dean" of Philanthropy H. Clifford Lee dies at age 82 leaving a legacy of leadership and a spirit of accountability. Please click
on the link to see the 7/18/06 press release, _Beneficence and a Modest Proposal "My Word" Column written by David Odahowski, commenting on the Buffett-Gates announcement. Printed in
the Orlando Sentinel, June 29, 2006. The Need For A Win-Win "My Word Column written by David Odahowski, stating the Foundations position of support for Nemours Foundation to
establish a childrens hospital in Orlando. Printed in the Orlando Sentinel, March 10, 2006 Donald A. Cheney and Civic Engagement: A Story Worth Telling The Keynote Address given by
David Odahowski at the Orange County Regional History CenterCs November 17, 2005 Culture Quest Evening Reception in Orlando, Florida. AFP Lifetime Achievement Award Introduction of
H. Clifford Lee, Chairman of Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, by Cindi Kopelman, Executive Director of Shepherd's Hope, Inc., at the November 15, 2005, AFP National Philanthropy Day
Awards Ceremony in Orlando, Florida. _ David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award Presentation David A. OdahowskiCis presentation of the David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award to
Mackenzie Chase at the AFP National Philanthropy Day Awards Ceremony in Orlando, Florida on November 15, 2005. Culture Quest Evening David A. Odahowski, President, introducing the
keynote speaker at A Celebration of Puerto Rican History & Culture at the Orange County Regional History Center, October 20, 2005. Volunteer Appreciation Breakfast Speech given by David
Odahowski, President, to Lighthouse Central FloridaCs volunteers on the occasion of Volunteer Appreciation Day, October 26, 2005. Orlando Remembered Exhibit Speech given by Matthew
W. Certo, Board Member, at the Orange County History Center for the Grand Opening of the Orlando Remembered Permanent Exhibit, September 29, 2005. _ Density and Civility A letter to
the editor of Orlando Sentinel, dated August 22, 2005, by David Odahowski on civility and civic engagement ity of Winter Park Interview An interview of David Odahowski, President of the
Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, by the City of Winter Park on the topic of the Creative Class for the August/September 2005 issue of Economic Development Update. August 17, 2005.

EITC Presentation to Orange County Mayor Crotty and County Commissioners, May 10, 2005 A presentation by David Odahowski on the subject of Earned Income Tax Credit, Orlando, Florida,
May 10, 2005 Enhancing Civic Participation: Engaging New Partners Opening remarks by David Odahowski for a panel presentation to the Hispanic Summit-Orlando Chamber, Orlando,
Florida, March 3, 2005 My Word Column written by David Odahowski, printed in the Orlando Sentinel, January 7, 2005 Invocation Invocation given by David Odahowski at the 2004
Association of Fundraising Professionals National Philanthropy Day Awards Breakfast, Orlando, Florida, November 8, 2004. _ Presentation to Orange County Board of County Commissioners A
presentation by David Odahowski on the subject of Earned Income Tax Credit, Orlando, Florida, October 26, 2004. The Philanthropic Response C1 Giving Voice to Our Hearts Article written
by David Odahowski; published by the Orlando Business Journal, Orlando, Florida, October 18, 2004. A Community Response to Hurricane Charley Introductory talk by David Odahowski to a
group of community nonprofit organizations convened by Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Center at Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida, August 27, 2004. The New Accountability
Challenge Speech given by David Odahowski to The Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants Nonprofit Organization Conference in Tampa, Florida, June 7, 2004. Central Florida: A
Legacy Community An article written by David Odahowski; published by the Orlando Business Journal, Orlando, Florida, November 13, 2003. The State of Philanthropy in our Community
and in Florida Talk given to the Tax Wise Giving Advisory Board of Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida, February 18, 2003. Seek and Ye Shall Find Talk given to the Building Capacity and
Partnerships Breakout Session of The GovernorJs Faith-Based Conference, Orlando, Florida, September 3, 2002. _ Raising More Money Workshop Opening Remarks Opening remarks to
participants of the Raising More Money Workshop , Orlando, Florida, March 26, 2002. Your Business Life and the Business of Life Commencement Address to the graduates of Hamilton Holt
School at Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida, May 13, 2000. A speech by David Odahowski to the December 20, 2000, monthly meeting of NSFRE. Philanthropy in Central Florida: What
Every Concerned Citizen Should Know Speech given by David Odahowski to the University Club of Winter ParkOs Financial Luncheon Group, Winter Park, Florida, December 1, 1999. Good
Governance Makes For Good Grants (and Sense) For the Grant Seeker and Grant Maker Panel presentation by David Odahowski to a plenary session of the National Center for Nonprofit Boards
at their 1999 National Leadership Forum, Washington, DC, November 16, 1999. Our Mission "To provide nonprofit programs and grantmaking designed to help people help themselves"
Eligibility Quiz If your organization is considering submitting a grant proposal to the Foundation, please to see if you are eligible. click here Our Founder Edyth Bush (Mrs. Archibald G. Bush)
was born in Chicago, Illinois, the daughter of Sarah and Eugene Bassler. She became a successful ballet dancer, actress, musician, composer and playwright. 199 E, Welbourne Avenue, Suite
100, Winter Park, Florida 32789 | 407-647-4322 | 888-647-4322 toll free | 407-647-7716 fax | Click Here for Directions