Release "Time Fades Away" Often imitated, but never duplicated, Neil Young's unique musical songwriting and playing style has influenced a generation of artists from Booker T. and the MG's
to Pearl Jam to Wilco. From to , to , rockabilly to heavy metal, blues to synth, a musical genre label will never apply to Neil and his music. An observer once wrote that Crazy Horse bandmate
"poncho" Sampedro referred to Young's musical polygamy as "a fact of life. alt-country grunge punk alternative "Young has always been a lone wolf - a musical chameleon, who changes his
musical style and his band as often as most people change their shirt." Here are links for special pages on Thrasher's Wheat on Neil's music, career, and influence. Neil Young Albums Over the
course of Neil's long career stretching back to the early 1960's and his work in Canada with The Squires, through the 70's, 80's, 90's, and into the 21st century, he has produced major albums
which both directly and indirectly shaped the music of generations. With over 40 albums with bands including The Buffalo Springfield, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, and Crazy Horse, Young has
never been easily categorized with influences ranging from folk, rock, punk, , country, blues, and synth. grunge Neil Young Concerts Rolling Stone's Paul Nelson writes on the Boarding House
shows in San Francisco, CA in 1978: "In the manner of the best of the traditional blues singers, Neil Young seems totally alone on stage in a way that almost no contemporary performer ever
does. But he's not foreboding, and you don't feel shut off. Head down, chin tucked into his shoulders like a boxer, he peers out at you with those all-knowing eyes filled with humour and flashes
that beatific, silly grin. Like Muhammad Ali, he may well be the greatest." Neil Young Films John Rockwell writes in the New York Times of Neil's best film effort: 'Rust Never Sleeps' offers
some of his strongest songs, both new and old, in performances as fine or finer than those of his recent, partly live record of the same title, The effect here is rougher than the record, less
polished with overdubbing; at one point, Mr. Young even mangles the words of one of his best songs. But the intensity of the singing and the playing of Crazy Horse, Mr. Young's longtime
partners for electric-rock projects, is as moving as rock can offer. It's so good, in fact, that it almost lets one overlook Mr. Young's theatrical conceits, and almost makes the film recommendable
for the general public, after all