Windsurf, Kayak, Pedal Boat, Canoe & More Rentals Fishing Guides Marina Store Featuring Gifts, Sundries, Apparel and Snacks Fishing Packages Above Listed Services Only Available toLake
Las Vegas Residents and Guests Yacht Charters: No matter what the occasion is, chartering a yacht on beautiful Lake Las Vegas makes any event just that much more special. Lake Las Vegas
yacht the "Lady of the Lake" is a 60 foot yacht featuring two decks for vesatility and comfort as well as a host of luxury amenities and appointments that are sure to please. Your guests will find
comfort in our full kitchen galley and interior climate controlled staterooms. Exchange vows against a backdrop of majestic landscapes and create a loving memory that you and your guests will
cherish for a lifetime. Imagine the impression it will make when the beautiful bride to be makes her entrance from the bow of the yacht. Gliding over smooth waters, beaching on brilliant white
sands to be presented to her groom. Corporate Events: Chartering a yacht for your business functions is a fresh new alternative to traditional meeting rooms and conference halls. Make your
next event a resounding success by mixing business with just the right amount of pleasure. Several programs are also currently available to handle your corporate team-building needs.
Incorporated into these programs are watertoys, games and workshops designed to build trust, strengthen bonds and help your team better understand the benefits of cooperation and working
together. No stuffy classrooms and your group will lear and have fun at the same time. Catering and bar service are available through high quality restaurants at the resort for your
convenience. Our helpful staff can assist you with event and menu planning to ensure your event is a resounding success. Location: Take I-215 from the airport until the freeway ends at Lake
Mead Drive. Continue East, past Boulder Highway, aproximately 2 miles to Lake Las Vegas Parkway.From McCarran Airport: Take Las Vegas Boulevard South to Tropicana Avenue. Travel East to
US-95 South. Exit on Lake Mead Drive and make a left (East) to Lake Las Vegas Parkway.From Las Vegas Strip: