The 800 Gmat Blog For what ever reason you've decided to take the Gmat. Congratulations! Roughly 30 people each year score 800 on the Gmat. Why not you? Its time for the. Im sure you
know there are many Gmat courses on the web. The problem is that these courses cost a lot of money. And if you have the money by all means you should take a course.800 Gmat Blog All of
the lessons are based on my notes taken from a reputable test prep company. I've taken an expensive GMAT course so you dont have to. For the rest of you, you've come to the right place. If
you're like me, you're a broke student. I've always believed that education should be available for all those who want it, not just the privileged. Thats why I created this gmat blog. This blog
will offer free gmat prep advice to take the absolute beginner to scoring well over 600 on the gmat and with enough study time and dedication over 700. I will be showing you exactly how to
win the gmat fight without spending a penny. That's right, this is going to cost nothing. No credit card required. Thanks for stopping by. Mail (will not be published) Website Comment
moderation is enabled and may delay your comment. There is no need to resubmit your comment.Please note: My Reading List The only books you need on the GMAT are the official guides.
Most people however need a few books to help them on the verbal sections. Here are the best of the best books. Breakthrough Rapid Reading Discover the best book on reading
comprehension ever. The key to mastering reading comprehension is to change the way we read. Amazingly, this only takes a couple of hours. You should be able to read times faster on the
Gmat with a improvement in comprehension. Breeze through even the toughest Gmat passages. Get itthree15% - 20% here. Amazon Rating: Sentence Correction GMAT Preparation Guide
Buy this book now. This hidden treasure is the most concise step by step book on mastering the sentence correction section on the GMAT. Without it you will be at a serious disadvantage. Plus
you get free access to Manhattan gmat's 6 practice tests. We like free. Get it here Amazon Rating: Critical Reasoning Bible Dont be afraid to get a book dedicated solely on critical reasoning
The techniques addressed in the book are far ahead of any other similar book. After reading this book, you won't have to think on critical reasoning section as answers come natural. This book
is recommended for people looking to dramatically improve their overall verbal score and score in the 700s. Get it here. Amazon Rating: