Abstract: The series of 4 building case studies presented here all concem libraries, particularly the issue of lighting and visual comfort in libraries. The success of libraries, which have
traditionally been intended for the reading of books or other matter, depends largely on the setting, particularly the luminous environment, provided for that reading. Great libraries of the world
are renowned for their daylighting, beautifully incorporated into the architectural form of the building. Examples are the Stockholm Public Library, the U.S. Library of Congress in Washington,
D.C., the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, and the New York and Boston Public Libraries, to name a few. 4 libraries in the Seattle metropolitan area were selected for this study: University of
Washington Suzzallo Library, Graduate Reading Room University of Washington Law Library in Condon Hall Magnolia Public Library, Seattle Public Libraries Bellevue Public Library, King County
Libraries Each library was selected because it is outstanding in some way, as you will see in perusing the case studies. Each library was lauded for its design at the time it was built. Each library
incorporates daylighting into the architectural design in a conscious way. Yet there are some interesting comparisons and contrasts inherent in the selection. Two of the libraries serve the
university community, while two of the libraries serve particular neighborhoods in the Seattle area. Three of the libraries were designed and built before computers became an essential part of
libraries, and one (Bellevue) was built with computer use in mind. The two university libraries have specific reading rooms that were studied, while the community libraries have reading areas
scattered throughout the building. The time periods represented by the 4 libraries 1923 (Suzzallo), 1962 (Magnolia), 1972 (UW Law) and 1991 (Bellevue) represent different cultural and
design approaches to the definition and construction of a library. In addition, major changes occurred concerning the provision of thermal and visual comfort in buildings between 1923 and
1962, pivoting around the time of World War II. These changes become apparent in the evaluation of the comfort of each library, how lighting and comfort were provided for in the original
design, and how they are perceived now. All contents copyright (C) 1998. Vital Signs Project. All rights reserved. Created:10/16/98