> > > HR Home | Prospective Employees Home | Employment Opportunities | Faculty Employment Opportunities | Faculty Employment Opportunities Help us become a world class regional
university! At IU Southeast, we promote student learning and prepare students for productive citizenship in a diverse society. You will contribute to the intellectual, cultural, and economic
development of the metro Louisville area. Top 5 Reasons to work for IU Southeast: Help us educate the world, one student at a time.Our Mission: http://www.ius.edu/missionvisionvalues.cfm
Find balance between work and life at IU Southeast plus great paid time off, health insurance (including dental) and retirement plan options.Our Benefits:
http://www. ius.edu/hr/prospective/benefits.cfm Our campus is friendly and fun! YouCIll find a community of eager leamers of all ages.Our Atmosphere: We value learning so you will have lots
of professional development opportunities. Attend training or take classes. With our fee courtesy program, () weCill even pay for your bachelorCIs or master(ls level course work!Lear and
Grow At IU Southeast: We grow people. ItCIs our business. At IU Southeast, we hire the best and the brightest. If youClre one of the right people, we encourage you to apply.Our People:
Assistant Professor Elementary Education - School of Education Print this Job Posting The Elementary Education Program at Indiana University Southeast invites applications for Assistant
Professor of Education with a specialization in Educational Foundations and Teaching in a Multicultural Society. The successful candidate will join a team of ten other Elementary Education
faculty teaching a variety of methods courses. Tenure track Faculty Position, Assistant Professor of Elementary Education/Educational Foundations The successful candidate must have a Ph.D.
or Ed.D. in Foundations of Education, Multicultural Education or Curriculum and Instruction with major coursework in multicultural/educational foundations (ABDs who will graduate by August,
2009 may apply). The candidate must have a minimum of three years of teaching in a public Elementary school setting (K-6). Evidence of excellence in teaching is required. Candidate must
demonstrate excellent communication skills and the ability to work well with colleagues. Candidates with teaching experience or experience supervising student teachers in higher education
settings are preferred. Demonstrated proficiency with technology is also a preference. Position Requirements The successful candidate will teach coursework in the Elementary Education
Program related to teaching in a multicultural society and supervise student teachers. The candidate will also teach an Introduction to Teaching course for the School of Education, as well as
coordinate the staffing of other sections of the course. Summer teaching merits additional remuneration and is a possibility. Reassigned time for scholarship will be provided to assist the
candidate in the promotion and tenure process. The candidate must demonstrate excellence in teaching to be eligible for promotion and tenure. Indiana University Southeast is one of eight
campuses of Indiana University, located on a beautiful 177-acre tract in scenic Southern Indiana, only 10 minutes from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. A new state-of-the-art Library opened in
January 2005. For more information on IUS please visit. Barbara Thompson Book, Ph.D., Chair Assistant Professor, Elementary Education C/O Human Resources Contact Human Resources
if any accommodations are needed during the application process due to a disability. 812/941-2356Position Responsibilities Consistent with the Universitys commitment to diversity, persons
from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Employer. IU Southeast is a Tobacco Free campus
(induding the residence halls). 12/3/08 Asst. Professor of Computer Science - School of Natural Sciences Print this Job Posting Computer Science Tenure Track Faculty Position - Assistant
Professor The successful candidate will teach undergraduate courses in a software-oriented computer science curriculum and conduct a recognized program of research. The candidate is
expected to develop upper-level courses in at least one of the areas of multiprocessing or distributed systems, security, or mobile computing systems. Additional information at:Responsibilities
 http://www.ius.edu/hr/prospective/empopp_faculty.cfm Required: an eared doctorate in computer science or closely related field (ABDs completing by August 2009 will be considered)
Preferred: university-level teaching and professional experience, and a background in at least one of the areas of multiprocessing or distributed systems, security, or mobile computing systems.
Send detailed vita, three professional letters of recommendation and other pertinent evidence (syllabi and evaluations of courses taught; teaching and research areas, etc.) to Computer
Science Search, IU Southeast c/o Human Resources, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. Deadline for first review is January 12, but the search will remain open until filled. Direct
questions to Dr. Ronald Finkbine at .Position Requirements Application - rfinkbin@ius.edu The department has 8 full-time faculty and offers two Bachelor of Science degrees with a
concentration in mathematics and science or information systems. The department closely cooperates with the Department of Informatics, the Department of Mathematics, and the School of
Business. Indiana University SoutheastComputer Science Department IU Southeast is one of eight campuses of Indiana University located in New Albany, Indiana, ten minutes from downtown
Louisville, Kentucky, the 16th largest city in the United States. IU Southeast has an enrollment of 6000 students and is a Camegie Masters I institution offering bachelor and master degree
programs in a wide range of disciplines. A new Graduate Center was opened in nearby Jeffersonville in 2003, the campus completed a 5-year strategic plan in 2004, a new state-of-the-art
$15.5 M library opened in 2005 and the University Center was renovated in 2006-7. Support for scholarship and teaching is available at the campus and system level. Consistent with the
university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditional under-represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
12/2/08 Clincal Assistant Professor - School of Nursing Print this Job Posting Indiana University Southeast School of Nursing invites applications for the position of Clinical Assistant Professor
of Nursing. The Clinical Assistant Professor reports to the Dean of the School of Nursing. Primary teaching responsibilities include:  Instruction in Medical-Surgical and/or Critical Care Clinical
Instruction in Introductory Nursing didactic courses with corresponding labs * Instruction in O8 clinical Other responsibilities include providing service to the School of Nursing, the University,
community and profession. Evidence of achievement in and commitment to one or more of the above areas of responsibility is expected. Strong communication skills and the ability to work
effectively in a collegial environment are essential. Master's degree in nursing is required. Must be licensed or be eligible for RN licensure in the State of Indiana and the Commonwealth of
Kentucky. Strong medical-surgical background preferredRequirements: IU Southeast School of Nursing is fully accredited by the Indiana State Board of Nursing and the Commission on
Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). Indiana University Southeast is a Master's I university of 6400 students, located in New Albany, Indiana, just 10 minutes from downtown Louisville,
Kentucky. This setting offers options for urban, suburban, or rural living in a metropolitan area with excellent museums, entertainment, and restaurants. For further information about the
institution and the position, see . http://www.ius.edu/ .To apply, submit a letter of interest, a complete vita, and three letters of reference to Dean of the School of Nursing - Search
Committee, Indiana University Southeast, c/o Human Resources, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. Screening of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the
position is filled Consistent with IU Southeasts commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under-represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. 12/1/08 -Back to Top-
Assistant Professor of School Counselor Education - School of Education Print this Job Posting The successful candidate for this position will teach graduate courses in School Counseling
Administration/Organization, School Counseling Skills, plus a choice of practicum or internship in school counseling, contemporary issues in school counseling and orientation to school
counseling. Summer teaching is available since students are required to take summer classes. Excellence in teaching, close supervision of students, involvement in K-12 schools, committee
work in the School of Education and on campus and applied scholarship are expected, The Counseling Program is a 48 hour masters that uses the American School Counseling Association
(ASCA) and Transforming School Counseling (TSC) models for training school counselors. Students enter a cohort of 16 and take two years to complete the sequence of classes. Students in
the program come equally from rural/ suburban areas of Indiana and urban/ suburban schools in nearby Louisville, KY. Required: an earned doctorate in counseling psychology, counselor
education or closely related field (ABDs who will graduate by August 2009 can apply) and experience working in a certified school counselor position in K-12 schools. Preferred: Teaching
experience in graduate courses in counseling, involvement in related professional organizations and demonstrated potential for an applied research agenda. Send detailed vita, three
professional letters of recommendation and other pertinent evidence (syllabi and evaluations of courses taught; description of school based programs, etc.) to School Counselor Search, IU
Southeast c/o Human Resources, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. Deadline for first review is January 12, but remains open until filled. Direct questions to Dr. Mary Bradley at or
812-941-2346. The IU Southeast School of Education has 30 full-time faculty and offers the Bachelor of Science in Education leading to initial teaching licenses in elementary, secondary and
special education. At the advanced level, the unit offers a Master of Science in Education with majors in elementary education, secondary education and school counseling. Licenses indude
gifted and talented, kindergarten, middle school, computer education, reading and educational leadership. The School of Education and all its programs are NCATE accredited with the most
recent review in fall 2005. The final NCATE report showed no weaknesses or concerns. Tenure Track Faculty Position, Assistant Professor of School Counselor Education
Responsibilities Position Requirements IU Southeast School of Education _IU Southeast is one of eight campuses of Indiana University located in New Albany, Indiana, ten
minutes from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. IU Southeast has an enrollment of 6000 students and is a Carnegie Masters I institution offering bachelor and master degree programs in a wide
range of disciplines. A new Graduate Center was opened in nearby Jeffersonville in 2003, the campus completed a 5-year strategic plan in 2004, a new state-of-the-art $15.5 M library opened
in 2005 and the University Center is being renovated in 2006-7. Support for scholarship and teaching is available at the campus and system level.IU Southeast Consistent with the university's
commitment to diversity, persons from traditional under-represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. 11/11/08
Assistant Librarian-Coordinator of Electronic Resources - Library Services Print this Job Posting Indiana University Southeast invites applications for Assistant Librarian/Coordinator of Electronic
Resources. We seek creative, highly motivated candidates with an excellent understanding of collection management issues and trends (selection, acquisition, and assessment) related to
electronic information resources in libraries. The successful candidate will join a collegial team of seven librarians and ten paraprofessional staff, strongly committed to delivering
state-of-the-art information resources in a supportive, service-oriented environment. Responsibilities include leadership in the selection, evaluation, purchase, licensing and assessment of
online information resources; participation in bibliographic instruction and reference (including scheduled evening and weekend rotations); various liaison, supervisory, and other duties as
assigned. Required qualifications: an ALA-accredited masters degree; excellent written and oral communication skills; commitment to professional development appropriate for promotion and
tenure in this faculty position; demonstrated interest in and understanding of electronic resource collection development. Preferred qualifications: acquisition, licensing, management and
assessment of electronic resources in a consortial environment, e-resource management tools (e.g., Serials Solutions); reference and instruction experience; commitment to service; academic
library work experience. Competitive salary with excellent benefits. This is a tenure-track position with expectations for research, service, and professional development. Position available
January 5, 2009. Indiana University Southeast is one of eight campuses of Indiana University, located on a beautiful 177-acre tract in scenic Southern Indiana, only 10 minutes from
downtown Louisville, Kentucky. A new state-of-the-art Library opened in January 2005. For more information on IUS and the IUS Library, please visit. . To apply, send letter of interest,
resume, and names, telephone numbers, and e-mail and street addresses of three current professional references to email address: Melanie E. Hughes, Chair Assistant Librarian Search C/O
Human Resources Review of applications begins November 14, 2008 hr@ius.edu Contact Human Resources if any accommodations are needed during the application process due a disability.
 Consistent with the Universitys commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action Equal
Opportunity Employer IU Southeast is a Tobacco Free campus (including the residence halls). 10/13/08  -Back to Top- Assistant Professor of Psychology -Experimental - School of Social
Sciences Print this Job Posting Tenure-track position: Ph.D. preferred, ABDs considered -beginning fall 2009. All qualified applicants with a specialization in behavioral neuroscience are
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will: 1. display the interest and expertise necessary to teach introduction to psychology, research methodology/statistics, sensation and
perception, and behavioral neuroscience, and 2. demonstrate the ability to develop a research program that can be sustained at an undergraduate institution and allows for the participation of
undergraduate students. Teaching experience is preferred and candidates should be firmly committed to high quality undergraduate teaching. Some teaching of evening classes is required.
Indiana University Southeast is one of the seven campuses of the Indiana University system and is 5 miles from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. Send letter of interest including a statement of
teaching and research interests, vita, official undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and three letters of recommendation to Dr. Cliff Staten, Dean, School of Social Sciences, Indiana
University Southeast, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. The deadline for applications is December 15, 2008. IUS is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to
support students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Please contact Human Resources if you need any accommodations during the job application process due to your disability.
Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action/Equal
Opportunity Employer. 10/9/08 -Back to Top- Assistant Professor of Political Science - School of Social Sciences Print this Job Posting Assistant Professor of Political Science, tenure-track
position: Minimum qualifications include: 1. Specialization in the area of American Politics with interest in teaching: Intro to American Politics, State and Local Government, Urban Politics, and
Public Policy and other courses in his/her specialty area with ability to teach in areas of diversity a plus. 2. Ph.D. in Political Science preferred, but ABDs will be considered. The successful
candidate will demonstrate the ability to develop a research program that can be sustained at an undergraduate institution, with inclusion of undergraduates in research a plus. Teaching
experience is strongly preferred and candidates should be firmly committed to high quality undergraduate teaching. Some teaching of evening classes is required. Indiana University Southeast
is one of the eight campuses of the Indiana University system and is 5 miles from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. _ Contact Human Resources if any accommodations are needed during the
application process due a disability. Review of applications will begin on October 15 and will continue until the position is filled. To apply: Send letter of interest including a statement of
teaching and research interests, vita, official undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and three letters of recommendation to Dr. Cliff Staten, Dean, School of Social Sciences, Indiana
University Southeast, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly
encouraged to apply. Indiana University Southeast is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. 8/13/08 Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice-School of Social Sciences Print this Job
Posting Indiana University Southeast is pleased to announce an opening for a tenure track position in Criminal Justice beginning August 2009. The successful candidate will be appointed at the
Assistant Professor level. This person will have a PhD in Criminal Justice or related area, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and potential scholarly productivity. Candidates in final stages of the
dissertation will be considered. The successful candidate should be a generalist and will be expected to teach a wide variety of courses in criminology and criminal justice. However, preference
will be given to candidates with the ability to teach courses in theory/methods, policing, criminal courts, and/or diversity in criminal justice. Indiana University Southeast is a residential campus
of over 6,000 students located in New Albany, Indiana which is within the Louisville, Kentucky greater metropolitan area. The metro area of about one million people has a thriving arts, music
and dining scene as well as excellent nearby recreation areas. The Criminal Justice program is a relatively new, growing program within a School of Social Sciences and maintains strong support
for faculty research, teaching innovation, and community service. The committee hopes to be able to conclude this search by recommending a candidate in time to start in the fall of 2009.
Review of candidates will begin on November 1 and continue until the position is filled. Please send a letter of interest indicating your qualifications for the position as well as an up to date
curriculum vitae, sample of scholarly writing, evidence of teaching success and the names, addresses, e-mail and phone numbers of four references to: Dr. Cliff Staten Dean, School of Social
Sciences Indiana University Southeast 4201 Grant Line Road New Albany, IN 47150 Indiana University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and is strongly committed to
achieving excellence through cultural diversity. The university actively encourages applications and nominations of women, persons of color, applicants with disabilities and members of other
under represented groups. 8/14/08 Search Extended - Visiting Lecturer in Education for ESL-ENL Print this Job Posting SEARCH EXTENDED Visiting Lecturer in Education ESL/ENL Indiana
University Southeasts Department of Education invites applications for the position of Visiting Lecturer in ENL/ESL. Length of appointment is 10 months with possible annual renewal for five
years. Summer employment is likely. Responsibilities include teaching ENL/ESL courses, supervising field experiences, providing in-service training for K-12 teachers and college faculty, and
collaborating with a network of regional schools. Required qualifications: master's degree in education; ENL teaching license; 3 years school ENL teaching experience, and ability to travel to
schools in the region. Preferred qualifications: Spanish proficiency, familiarity with emerging ENL programs, and experience appropriate for providing in-service training. Applicants should send
resume or CV, education transcripts, three current recommendations and letter explaining the match between qualifications and job responsibilities to: IU Southeast, c/o Human Resources,
4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150 or by e-mail to For more information, contact Dr. Magdalena Herdoiza-Estevez at . If you require reasonable accommodations due to 2
disability for the interview, contact Human Resources IU Southeast is one of eight campuses of Indiana University. It is located on a beautiful 177 acre tract in scenic southern Indiana, 10
minutes from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. IU Southeast is a comprehensive university offering a range of bachelors, masters, and associate's degrees. hr@ius.edu mherdoiz@ius.edu
hr@ius.edu Review of applications will be on-going during the spring semester of 2008 and will continue until the position is filled. IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that
actively seeks to support students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally underrepresented groups are
strongly encouraged to apply. Indiana University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. 12/09/07 -Back to Top- Part-Time Instructors for Physiology, Introductory Chemistry
and Introductory Computer Science and programming courses - School of Natural Sciences Print this Job Posting The School of Natural Sciences at IU Southeast is seeking part-time instructors
beginning Spring 2009 for teaching classes in the following areas: Introductory Chemistry Physiology Introductory Computer Sciences Applicants must have at least a master's degree in a
field related to the area of teaching. Higher education teaching experience is very desirable. To apply for any of these positions please send a resume, cover letter and references to: Dean,
School of Natural Sciences, IU Southeast, 4201 Grant Line Rd, New Albany, IN 47150 IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to support students, faculty and
staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast
is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 12/05/08 Part-Time Faculty for School of Education-Summer 2009 Print this Job Posting BEGINNING SUMMER 2009 The School of
Education is seeking Adjunct Faculty for future semester teaching in the undergraduate and graduate elementary and secondary programs. A masters degree is required. Documented success
in college teaching desired. To apply please mail a letter of interest and resume or vita to Ms. K. Bowling, Administrative Secretary to Dean of Education, HH 0020, IUS, 4201 Grant Line Road,
New Albany, IN 47150 or e-mail klbowlin@ius.edu . Consistent with the Universitys commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to
apply. IU Southeast is an Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Employer. IU Southeast is a Tobacco Free campus (including the residence halls). 12/05/08 Part-Time Spanish Instructors -
Arts & Letters Print this Job Posting The School of Arts & Letters seeks part-time instructors in Spanish. Master's degree required. Teaching experience, especially at university level is
desired. Teaching lower level Spanish courses $100 and S150 To apply send letter of interest and curriculum vita to: Amy Zink C/O School of Arts & Letters IU Southeast 4201 Grant Line
Road New Albany, IN 47150 IU Southeast is a non-residential campus of Indiana University. The campus is located 10 minutes from downtown Louisville, KY. The area is known for cultural,
sports and recreational activities and has a very low cost-of-living index. IU Southeast has an enrollment of over 6500 students and offers bachelors and masters degrees in a wide range of
disciplines. IU Southeast is one of eight campuses of Indiana University. IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to support students, faculty and staff from
diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the Universitys commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an
Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Employer. Part-time Composition (Writing) Instructors - Arts & Letters Print this Job Posting Part-Time Composition Instructors - Arts & Letters English
(Writing). Indiana University Southeast. Part-time instructors for the Writing Program, to teach courses in composition. Applicants should have an M.A. in Composition and Rhetoric, English, or
a related field as well as evidence of excellence in teaching writing at the university level. Knowledge of current composition pedagogy preferred, Mail a letter of interest and resume or c.v. to
John Wilson Ramey and Diane Russell, Writing Co-Coordinators, School of Arts and Letters, KV 110, IUS, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany IN 47150. IU Southeast is committed to a learning
environment that actively seeks to support students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under
represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 12/11/08 update Part-Time Philosophy Instructors - Arts & Letters
Print this Job Posting Part-time Philosophy Instructors ~ Arts & Letters Part-time instructors are needed to teach lower level Philosophy courses, such as P100 Intro to Philosophy and P140
Intro to Ethics. An M.A. in Philosophy is required. Documented success in college teaching desired. Mail a letter of interest and resume or c.v. to Dr. George Harvey, Coordinator of Philosophy
and Religion, School of Arts and Letters, KV 110, IUS, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN 47150. IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to support
students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to
apply. IU Southeast is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 12/11/08 updated Part-time Violin Instructors - Arts Institute Print this Job Posting - The IUS Arts Institute is
seeking a part-time instructor for teaching private Suzuki Violin lessons to beginning students. Students range from ages 3 to 18. Teachers set their own schedules and they will be referred
students by the Arts Institute. Additional duties will include preparing students for performance in recitals. Qualifications: Minimum Bachelor's degree. SAA registered training to book 6. The
qualified candidate would have the ability to have a flexible work schedule who enjoys working with children. Part-time Suzuki Violin InstructorMail a letter of interest and resume or c.v. to:
Arts Institute, School of Arts and Letters, OG 051, IUS, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, IN. 47150 IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to support
students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to
apply. IU Southeast is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 12/11/08 -Back to Top- PART-TIME INSTRUCTORS for Intro. Biology; Elem. & General Chem.; Intro. Computer
Sci.; Human Physiology Environmental Sci., Physics and Lower Level Math - School of Natural Sciences Print this Job Posting School of Natural Sciences at IU Southeast seeks part-time
instructors beginning fall 2008 for teaching classes in the following areas: Introductory Biology Elementary & General Chemistry Introductory Computer Sciences Basic Human Physiology
Environmental Science Physics Lower Level Mathematics Applicants must have at least a master degree and higher education teaching experience is desirable. To apply for any of these
positions listed above send a cover letter, resume and contact information for two references, as soon as possible, to School of Natural Sciences, Adjunct Search, IU Southeast , 4201 Grant Line
Road, New Albany, IN 47150. IU Southeast is a regional campus of Indiana University. The campus is located 10 minutes from downtown Louisville, Kentucky. The area is known for cultural
sports and recreational activities and has a very low cost of living index. IU Southeast has an enrollment of over 6100 students and offers bachelors and masters degree in a wide range of
disciplines. IU Southeast is committed to a learning environment that actively seeks to support students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. Consistent with the university's
commitment to diversity, persons from traditionally under represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. IU Southeast is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 5/8/08
Indiana University Southeast is an Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Employer (AAEOE).