Brief Statement Concerto Model C154DWK and Virtuoso Models D154AWG/D154VWC (DR/VR) Concerto is indicated for ventricular antitachycardia pacing and ventricular defibrillation for
automated treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The system is also indicated for the reduction of the symptoms of moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA Functional Class III
or IV) in those patients who remain symptomatic despite stable, optimal medical therapy, and have a left ventricular ejection fraction < to 35% and a prolonged QRS duration.Indications for
Concerto: Virtuoso DR/VR devices are indicated to provide ventricular antitachycardia pacing and ventricular defibrillation for automated treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias in
patients with NYHA functional class II/III heart failure. The Virtuoso DR device is also indicated for use in the above patients with atrial tachyarrhythmias, or those patients who are at
significant risk of developing atrial tachyarrhythmias. Atrial rhythm management features, available on the Virtuoso DR, such as Atrial Rate Stabilization (ARS), Atrial Preference Pacing (APP),
and Post Mode Switch Overdrive Pacing (PMOP) are indicated for the suppression of atrial tachyarrhythmias in ICD-indicated patients with atrial septal lead placement and an ICD indication.
Due to the addition of the Optivol diagnostic feature, the Virtuoso indication is limited to NYHA functional class II/III heart failure patients who are indicated for an ICD. The dinical value of the
Optivol fiuid monitoring diagnostic feature has not been assessed in those patients who do not have fluid retention related symptoms due to heart failure.Indications for Virtuoso: Concerto is
contraindicated in patients whose ventricular tachyarrhythmias may have transient or reversible causes; patients with incessant VT or VF; and patients who have a unipolar
pacemaker.Contraindications for Concerto: Virtuoso DR/VR devices are contraindicated for patients experiencing any of the following conditions: tachyarrhythmias with transient or reversible
causes, incessant ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, present implant of a unipolar implantable pulse generator, and primary disorder or bradyarrhythmia. Virtuoso DR is also
contraindicated for patients who have a primary disorder of chronic atrial tachyarrhythmia with no concomitant VT or VF. Additionally, Virtuoso VR is contraindicated for patients who have a
primary disorder of atrial arrhythmia. Contraindications for Virtuoso: Changes in a patient's disease and/or medications may alter the efficacy of the device's programmed parameters. Patients
should avoid sources of magnetic and electromagnetic radiation to avoid possible underdetection, inappropriate sensing and/or therapy delivery, tissue damage, induction of an arrhythmia,
device electrical reset or device damage. Do not place transthoracic defibrillation paddles directly over the device. Certain programming and device operations may not provide cardiac
resynchronization.Warnings and Precautions: Potential complications include, but are not limited to, rejection phenomena, erosion through the skin, muscle or nerve stimulation, oversensing,
failure to detect and/or terminate tachyarrhythmia episodes, acceleration of ventricular tachycardia, and surgical complications such as hematoma, infection, inflammation, and
thrombosis.Potential Complications: Model 27901 Conexus Activator The Conexus Activator is intended for use by clinicians to enable Conexus wireless telemetry in a Conexus compatible
heart device. After Conexus telemetry has been enabled, a session can be conducted with a CareLink programmer without the use of a programming head. The Conexus Activator determines if
a Medtronic heart device is Conexus compatible and enables Conexus wireless telemetry in the Medtronic heart device. Contraindications: There are no known contraindications for the Conexus
Activator.Intended Use: Model 2090 CareLink Programmer The Medtronic CareLink programmer is a portable, microprocessor-based instrument used to program Medtronic implantable
devices. See device manuals for detailed information regarding the implant procedure, indications, contraindications, warnings, precautions, and potential complications/adverse events. For
further information, please call Medtronic at 1-800-328-2518 and/or consult Medtronics website at . www.medtronic.com Federal law (USA) restricts these devices to sale by or on the order of
a physician.Caution: Model 2490C CareLink Monitor The Medtronic CareLink Monitor and the Medtronic CareLink Network are indicated for use in the transfer of patient data from some
Medtronic implantable cardiac devices based on physician instructions and as described in the product manual. These products are not a substitute for appropriate medical attention in the event
of an emergency and should only be used as directed by a physician. Do not use a cellular phone while the antenna is positioned over the implanted device. The Medtronic CareLink Network is
currently available in the continental United States, Alaska and Hawaii.Intended Use: Warnings and Precautions: Model 2020A CardioSightReader The Model 2020A CardioSight Reader is
intended for use in a clinical setting. The CardioSight Reader is indicated for use to interrogate compatible Medtronic implantable devices to collect patient and device data and send the
information to the clinician. The Model 2090A CardioSight Reader cannot be used to change therapy. There are no contraindications for the Model 2020 CardioSight Reader. The CardioSight
Reader must only be used for interrogating compatible Medtronic implantable devices. Do not use a cellular phone while the antenna is positioned over the implanted device. The CardioSight
Reader is designed for use in the continental United States , Alaska, and Hawaii.Intended Use:Contraindications:Wamings and Precautions: