MON, THU, FRI, SAT, SUN 3:40PM 4:20PM You can also check the best connecting flights from other cities by using Travelocity to see if there is convenient connecting service from your city
to Aguadilla (airport code BQN) - Check Flight Timetables with Travelocity If you're using an online service such as , , or to book your airline tickets, remember that the airport code for San
juan is SJU, Mayaguez airport code is MAZ and the airport code for Raphael Hernandez Airport in Aguadilla is BQN. However, not all of these online booking services display flights on . Booking
Air Online: www.travelocity.com www.expedia.com www.orbitz.com JetBlue Driving Instructions to Rincon, Puerto Rico We strongly advise renting a car for your vacation in Rincon, since
exploring our comer of Puerto Rico along Route # 413 is one of the highlights of any trip to Puerto Rico's 'Porta del Sol. There are so many different beaches to discover and so many great
places up in the hills to watch the sunset - you'll love jumping in your car and explore! You will find easy driving instructions below. Car rentals are easy to arrange at all airports.See listings
below. San Juan Airport (SJU) to Rinc n:There are a lot of steps in these instructions, since there is some ongoing construction in Aguada - but its really very easy and if you get lost, just ask
anyone for Rincon! They've be happy to point you in the right direction. The drive from San Juan is on a modem toll highway and the style of driving is similar to any large metropolitan area in
the mainland USA. Note: most drivers in Puerto Rico do not use their directional signals - so don't be surprised if cars turn without notice. Once you reach Aguadilla, the road narrows and
becomes a 4-lane road with stoplights along the way. If you miss the exit to Aguada, you can just continue to Mayaguez and pick up Route #115 from the opposite direction. From SJU Airport
- follow signs to Highway 26 (San Juan) upon exiting the airport ---DO NOT GO OVER MOSCOSO BRIDGE. Take Autopista (toll road) #22 (Bayamon). You will follow #22 until Arecibo and pay
several tolls -you can get rid of your pennies too! Once in Arecibo #22 turns into #2 - stay left. Follow #2 to Aguadilla (about 30 min.). In Aguadilla you will pass a baseball stadium on the
left. Stay on #2 until you reach #417 (there is an overhead crosswalk - so you can't miss it!). Dont take #115 off of #2 or you will probably get lost. and go 1.6 miles to the traffic light
(cemetery is on your right). Make a right on #417 At the cemetery several roads merge. Take Avenida Nativo Alers .(the sign is in the middle of the fork - take the left road) You are now on
the bypass around Aguada. Go 1.5 miles and turn left when the road ends at #115. Take #115 approximately 4 miles to Rincon.(through road construction and stay left - if you hit the beach
turn around) On the right will be #413 (Bo. Puntas ~ El Faro sign), take that 1.5 miles. You will see the Speedway Gas Station You are now in Puntas on Route #413 - Welcome to Rincon!
Depending on where you are staying in Rincon - you'll want to get specific directions from their own website - or just stop and ask along the way! Getting lost in Rincon is almost impossible -
and exploring is lots of fun! To go to the Lighthouse, Downtown and the Caribbean Coast - remain on Route #413 driving past The Lazy Parrot and Puntas Bakery. To go to the Puntas Beaches
= go down the hill to the right just after the Speedway Gas Station or if you miss that turn, you can catch the road again just after the Puntas Bakery. Aguadilla Airport (BQN) to Rincn Make a
left out of airport parking and another left at the stop sign onto #107. By the fourth light you need to be in the right lane and enter #2 South. Stay on #2 and follow directions above . making
a right on #417 Mayaguez Airport (MAZ) to Rincn Make a right out of airport parking. Right at the end of road which is #2. At the 2nd light (#115) make a left. Follow #115(pass 2 Texaco
gas stations, one on the right the other on the left). This is the road past 'Mango Alley & Rincon's Caribbean Coast into Downtown Rincon! To reach the Puntas 'Fun Coast and Sunset Coast -
make a left at the Libanese Bakery and follow the road until it dead ends at Route #413 and then follow 'The Road to Happiness. in Rincn is best by Car or Taxi! Getting Around Most visitors
to Rincon rent a car so that they can easily explore all the beaches, activities, restaurants and natural beauty of our corner of Puerto Rico. Hertz has rental counters at all Puerto Rico
airports.(see listing below) Driving in Rincon is easy. Its even easier if you purchase a copy of our Tourism Association Map when you arrive at your hotel, guest house or resort. The map
makes it easy to explore the best of Rincon. But don't worry - even without the map, if you take a wrong tum its just one more great place to discover. The roads are small two-lane country
roads' with some twists and tums - but they are easy to navigate. The beaches all have public access and parking is available for most beaches. If you prefer not to drive on vacations, you can
take a taxi from the airport to your hotel or resort. Taxis are available to meet flights that arrive at the Aguadilla Airport (BQN) - but you may want to contact Rincon Tours & Taxi for
reservations. Several of the larger hotels and resorts can easily be enjoyed without the necessity of renting a car.(see listing below) Avis Car Rental -Avis has rental car locations at all airports
in Puerto Rico... Punta Borinquen, Aguadilla 00708 , Puerto RicoAguadilla Airport - BQN 787-890-3311