Jump to: , navigation search (b. , ) is a - carpet trader and the caretaker of the only synagogue in . As of 2008, he is believed to be the sole remaining person in . His name has also been
transcribed in English as , and .Zablon Simintov 1959 Turkmenistan Turkmen Afghan Kabul [update] Jewish Afghanistan [1] [2] [3] [4] Zebulon SimentovZabolon SimentovZabolon Simantov
The Jewish population in Afghanistan once numbered around 5000, but most emigrated to either or the . Simintov had lived with the second last remaining Jewish man in Afghanistan, Ishaq
Levin, who died on , , aged around 80. The story of Simintov and Levin was the basis for a British play. Simintov deprecated Levin in an interview with British journalist . Levin had initially
welcomed Simintov but the two fell out permanently when Simintov offered the caretaker help to emigrate to Israel to join the rest of the former Kabul community. Simintov is adamant that he
made the suggestion only as he thought Kabul was too cold for the old man, but the older man took umbrage, thinking that Simintov was trying to take over the synagogue. A feud ensued,
with the Taliban becoming involved after both men reported each other to the authorities for alleged wrongdoings ranging from running a brothel to misappropriating religious objects. Israel
United States [5] January 26 2005 [6] Martin Fletcher [7] Simintov says it is not easy to practise his religion alone. But he has obtained special permission from the nearest rabbi, in , to
slaughter his own meat in the kosher way that can normally only be done by a special rabbi. Simintov lives alone in a small room next to a crumbling in and receives donations from Jewish
groups abroad and sympathetic locals. His wife and daughters live in . When asked during a recent interview whether he would go to Israel, Simentov [sic] retorted, "Go to Israel? What
business do I have there? Why should I leave?" Tashkent synagogue Kabul Muslim [8] Israel [9] [8] The product of an Orthodox upbringing, Simintov boasts of receiving matzo packages for
Passover from Afghan Jews living in New York. Sometimes, he says, Jewish foreigners visit his home for the high holidays. Simintov has been quoted as saying: However he is careful to wear
his yarmulke only in private, and is hesitant to take visitors inside the synagogue he calls home."I don't want my Jewish heritage erased. My father was a rabbi, my grandfather was a rabbi. We
were a big, religious family..." He says that many in Kabul pressure him to become a Muslim. . He keeps mostly to himself. The business owners on Flower Street, where he lives, call him
"Zabolon the Jew". They say they don't know him well but greet him when he passes by. One exception is Karmatullah, a Muslim shopkeeper who stores some of his goods in Simintov's home
and who considers Simintov a fellow Afghan at least in part. ."They are dumb. For me, that kind of talk is like a matchstick you use to light a cigarette. You throw it away without a second
thoughtTM"We can't say they are part of our history. They immigrated here. But it's OK for Jews to be here as long as they don't aim to occupy our country" [10]