The First Ladies of the United States of America Grace Anna Goodhue Coolidge [Calvin Coolidge] November 2001 For her fine personal influence exerted as First Lady of the Land," Grace
Coolidge received a gold medal from the National Institute of Social Sciences. In 1931 she was voted one of America's twelve greatest living women.Biography: She had grown up in the Green
Mountain city of Burlington, Vermont, only child of Andrew and Lemira 8. Goodhue, born in 1879. While still a girl she heard of a school for deaf children in Northampton, Massachusetts, and
eventually decided to share its challenging work. She graduated from the University of Vermont in 1902 and went to teach at the Clarke School for the Deaf that autumn. In Northampton she
met Calvin Coolidge; they belonged to the same boating, picnicking, whist-club set, composed largely of members of the local Congregational Church. In October 1905 they were married at her
parents home. They lived modestly; they moved into half of a duplex two weeks before their first son was born, and she budgeted expenses well within the income of a struggling small-town
lawyer. To Grace Coolidge may be credited a full share in her husband's rise in politics. She worked hard, kept up appearances, took her part in town activities, attended her church, and offset
his shyness with a gay friendliness. She bore a second son in 1908, and it was she who played backyard baseball with the boys. As Coolidge was rising to the rank of governor, the family kept
the duplex; he rented a dollar-and-a-half room in Boston and came home on weekends. In 1921, as wife of the Vice President, Grace Coolidge went from her housewife's routine into
Washington society and quickly became the most popular woman in the capital. Her zest for life and her innate simplicity charmed even the most critical. Stylish clothes--a frugal husband's one
indulgence--set off her good looks. After Harding's death, she planned the new administration's social life as her husband wanted it: unpretentious but dignified. Her time and her friendliness
now belonged to the nation, and she was generous with both. As she wrote later, she was "I, and yet, not I--this was the wife of the President of the United States and she took precedence
over me..." Under the sorrow of her younger son's sudden death at 16, she never let grief interfere with her duties as First Lady. Tact and gaiety made her one of the most popular hostesses of
the White House, and she left Washington in 1929 with the country's respect and love. For greater privacy in Northampton, the Coolidges bought "The Beeches," a large house with spacious
grounds. Calvin Coolidge died there in 1933. He had summed up their marriage in his : "For almost a quarter of a century she was borne with my infirmities, and I have rejoiced in her graces."
After his death she sold The Beeches, bought a smaller house, and in time undertook new ventures she had longed to try: her first airplane ride, her first trip to Europe. She kept her aversion
to publicity and her sense of fun until her death in 1957. Her chief activity as she grew older was serving as a trustee of the Clarke School; her great pleasure was the family of her surviving
son, John.Autobiography | || | || [Embassy of the United States of America Dag Hammarskjelds Vag 31, SE-115 89 Stockholm.