Physical Features of Brazil Every place on the earth surface has features that distinguish it from other places on earth. Geographers divide theses features into either physical and human
feature. Physical features include landforms, bodies of water, climate, natural vegetation and soil. Brazil has been both blessed and cursed by its varied landscape. The forests, rivers, and
mountains of Brazil have long hindered travel inland, and the country's vast interior remains little developed. Starting with it most famous physical feature, the world's largest tropical rain forest
sprawls across much of the north. The Amazon and other enormous rivers wind through vast green forests of towering trees and steamy jungles. Cloud covered mountains rise north of the
forests as well as bordering the Atlantic Ocean in the southeast. South of the Amazon region, the country's interior is dominated by dry plains extend across parts of northeastern Brazil. The
low plateaus of central and southern Brazil have fertile farmlands and lush grazing areas. In the far west, along the border with Paraguay and Bolivia, is the Pantanal, one of the largest
swamplands in the world. And along the Atlantic Ocean broad, white beaches are found glistening against the ocean Topographically, the landscape of Brazil is dominated by two major
physical features. In the north lies the Amazon River with its surrounding lowland basin of 4,000,000 sq. km. The Amazon Basin forms the largest rain forest in the world. In contrast to the
Amazon Basin, a large plateau called the Central Plateau rises through the South. A network of high mountains runs from the south through the Northeast, dividing the interior from the
Atlantic Ocean. Another interesting physical feature of Brazil is its river system. Brazil has one of the world's most extensive river systems, with five major drainage basins, all of which drain
into the Atlantic Ocean. Two of these basins, the Amazon and Tocantins-Araguaia, account for more than half the total drainage area. The largest river system in Brazil is the Amazon, which
starts in the Andes and receives water from tributaries that cover half of Brazil, mainly the north and west. The Amazon and its basin has all the features of a typical river valley although on a
grand scale.Here are some other facts about Brazilian rivers: With the exception of the Amazon, few of the larger Brazilian rivers are good for navigation. Many rivers are very short and are
broken by waterfalls and rapids. The longest river completely in Brazil is the Sao Francisco.