Europe/Middle East Positioning Technologies for Commercial Applications GPS is a constellation of 24 satellites orbiting the Earth. These satellites have very accurate clocks and use radio
signals to broadcast location information. Using satellites, a GPS receiver on the ground picks up the signals from the satellites to determine a location anywhere in the world. By adding
sophisticated software, a base station and communications link, location can be accurately determined to the centimeter level. Learn more about how GPS works by viewing our . In addition to
its GPS expertise, Trimble offers complete positioning solutions for a variety of applications.Global Positioning System (GPS) GPS tutorial Lasers are used in a range of applications to
accurately determine level, grade, vertical alignment and distance. Spinning lasers emit a rotating 360-degree beam of light that is used as vertical, grade or horizontal reference, a
difficult-to-establish yet critical datum for engineering and construction projects. Lasers are also used for measuring distance at high accuracy by determining phase shift or beam return time
Trimble also uses laser technology combined with a unique scanning methodology to capture the shapes of physical structures or scenes and convert them into digital format, known as 3D laser
scanning. This technology is revolutionizing high-end civil engineering and survey projects.Lasers Optics are an integral part of an essential surveying instrument called a total station. This
instrument enables the surveyor to compare locations in relation to one another. Optics allow survey and construction professionals to accurately pinpoint the exact feature to be measured
while lasers measure the distance. In the past, making sure the optic lenses were positioned correctly within the instrument was an art. Today, sophisticated software helps calibrate these
sensitive instruments, improving the accuracy and productivity of the surveyor.Optics Inertial technology senses changes in motion and is primarily used when GPS signals are obstructed
Starting with an initial location based on a landmark, inertial technology uses accelerometers and gyroscopes to determine the successive position based on movement. Inertial technology
complements GPS and is currently used for aerial photogrammetry, vehicle tracking, high-end road construction and marine applications.Inertial