About the Beacon Become part of our Public Insight Network and join thousands of people like you who help make the St. Louis Beacon even stronger. About once a month, we'll ask you to
share your observations, insights and experience. We then pass on your information to our reporters and editors who may follow up with a request for more information, or perhaps an
interview. It's a great way to share what you know. So open up. . Become part of the Public Insight Network Thanks to e-mail and the Internet, our editors and reporters can quickly find and
learn from thousands of people who have experience or knowledge on a story we are covering. We call this the Public Insight Network, and it relies on people like you -- our public sources. You
have knowledge and insights that can help us cover the news in greater depth and uncover stories we might not otherwise find. Some of our public sources end up in our features. Others
prefer to just help us get at the heart of a story. Nothing you share with us is published without your clear permission. So please help us create the great stories that have made you a repeat
visitor. What you can expect by becoming a public source: Frequently Asked Questions Find the answers to these questions and more in the . What is Public Insight Journalism ?How is this,
different from how KETC and the Beacon's newsrooms worked in the past? How will KETC and the Beacon use the information I give them?How do I share what I know with you? Up to one
e-mail a month asking for your insight on issues we plan to cover -- you respond only if you have knowledge; otherwise ignore the request An occasional follow-up call or e-mail to get more
information, if we follow a lead you provide Confidentiality: We won't quote you on the Web without your permission An open line for you to tell our editors what stories are important to you,
your family and your community and help us set our coverage priorities An occasional invitation to public insight meetings we hold in your area Your information is private and is not shared
outside of a small circle of trusted journalists You may be called on to help with national stories through . Your participation will inform well-known public radio programs such as, , ,, and
American Public Media Marketplace Marketplace Money Weekend America Speaking of Faith American RadioWorks Your help will make St. Louis news coverage stronger: By giving our editors
access to first person information and sources, new story ideas, a wider range of perspectives, and information that helps us identify under-covered or emerging issues By broadening our
network of sources and strengthening our connections with diverse people around the region By helping us create deeper and more relevant reporting based on a diverse range of sources
Read the of our Public Insight Network. See the to. questions we have asked stories our Public Insight Network sources have contributed Recent PIN Queries