Links Las Vegas Poker Poker in Las Vegas! Poker Tournaments, Large and Small! Poker Tournaments at all hours of the day and night! This website is all about the fabulous world of Poker in
Las Vegas, including up-to-date Poker Tournament Schedules. Free Texas Holdem videos - beginner tips, strategy, pot odds, poker psychology and more For as long as pokers popularity lasts
we will keep you informed and up-to-date on poker tournaments and poker rooms in Las Vegas. The Las Vegas Texas Hold'em poker scene is continuing to rapidly expand with new poker rooms
opening in various casinos and other casinos with existing poker rooms making room for more tables by moving to a larger space or expanding their existing space. No Limit Texas Hold'em
tournaments are featured at more and more places on and off the Las Vegas Strip, downtown, and outlying areas such as Henderson, North Las Vegas, South of Las Vegas, and everywhere else
in the valley. We are continuing to visit and re-visit every casino that offers poker and keep you informed of the changes, the , the , as well as anything else related to Las Vegas poker,
especially Hold'em tournament schedules major events New Casino, Eastside Cannery, Opens with New Poker Room A new 8-table poker room now exists on the Boulder Strip, in the East
part of Las Vegas at the location of the razed Nevada Palace. is next door. It's a pretty nice casino, built for $250 million and owned by same firm that owns The in North Las Vegas and
manages the Rampart Casino, adjacent to the on the west side. The new casino is the first to be opened on the East side in more than a decade. The Eastside Cannery Poker Room spreads the
usual games. Sam's Town Cannery Suncoast Hard Rock Opens "Poker Lounge" The Hard Rock Hotel & Casino recently opened a new poker room with 18 tables. Dubbed the "Poker Lounge",
it's a little different in that there is more noise, (rock music, etc) and has the feel of a nightclub, rather than a traditional poker room. All kinds of games are spread there, some at fairly high
stakes, as the Hard Rock attempts to gain some of the big poker names. A full slate of tournaments, from a $65 buy-in 11 am tournament, to a $330 buy-in weekend 3 pm tourney, are offered
All the tournaments have 5,000 or more starting chips, including sit-n-goes, also offered there. The Hard Rock is located at Harmon & Paradise, on the East side. Paradise is the street that leads
to the airport if taken southbound. Harmon is the one half way between Flamingo and Tropicana. The poker room is located near the main parking structure entrance. A short walk from there
through some rock history areas surrounding a few shops and eateries, etc leads to the Poker Lounge. Excalibur Re-Opens Poker Room with 12 Electronic Poker Tables Excalibur Casino closed
their poker room recently to take out the regular poker tables and install 12 new "PokerPro" tables, dealer-less tables with computer monitor screens for each of the 10 player seats and a big
monitor in the middle of the table to display community cards and other necessities. A little like online poker, only with live people sitting around the table, the new poker tables save staffing
costs for the poker room. The player deposits cash onto his MGM Mirage Players Card. Once the card is funded, the player needs to get on a waiting list for a cash game by swiping the card at a
machine with a touch screen display in the middle of the room, then choosing which game he wants to get on a waiting list for. Once at a table, the player inserts his card into the slot and
chooses the amount he wishes to play with during the session. Once he's dealt into a hand, the poker player cups his hands around the display of the face down cards and the touch-screen
electronics displays his hole cards, hidden from view of the other players by the act of cupping of the hands. As soon as the player takes his hands away, the cards go face-down again. When
the action gets around to the player, he has a choice of options at the top of his display, and once again touches the screen in the appropriate places to select his action, check, bet, call, raise,
or fold. Each action is required to be confirmed before itis official. In the case of raising or betting an optional amount, the player hits the appropriate chip display with a finger or the corner of
his player's card as many times as needed. As he is doing this, the amounts he is choosing is available for view by everyone, but he may retract and undo any time before hitting the "confirm
button", This would be similar to a regular live game where the player is counting out chips behind the line before taking an action. Games spread on the first Friday night we were there, were
50/1.00 no limit hold'em, $2/$4 limit, $1/$2 no limit, and $2/$5 no limit. Omaha hi-lo was about to be played when we left. About 6 of the 12 tables were in use during that evening. If the
new system catches on, look for other casinos to follow suit. A 10% rake was taken from each pot of the .50/1.00 NL game, capped at $3.00. Online poker is normally raked at 5%. Caribbean
Stud vs. Caribbean Holdm Caribbean stud has been around for some time, from even before the 21st Century poker boom. When online casinos became popular, it was only natural that many
would begin to feature . The Texas holdm craze has finally caught up with this popular table game, and now online Caribbean holdm is being offered. Which should you play?Casino Poker
Variations Online Poker Alive and Well 10/31/07 Despite scandals at Absolute Poker, whose owners or ex/owners were caught cheating in the very largest tournaments and the highest stakes
cash games, online poker in general is doing very well, both in the U.S. where the game has been more or less banned for over a yeat, and everywhere else in the world as well. The sites that
discontinued the U.S. market are mostly thriving without the biggest contingent of players and the ones that still allow players from the U.S. are going better than ever. Because of the , we
don't recommend this site any more. Instead, our recommendations are the tried and true and the lesser-known, but dynamite site . At Bugsys, you can make a min deposit and then play all
kinds of promotional tournaments to build your bankroll with little or no risk. Payouts are prompt, unlike so many of the other sites and like PokerStars, they still accept U.S. players. scandal at
Absolute PokerStars Bugsys Club New Poker Room at Planet Hollywood by Mike Greenberg Planet Hollywood (formerly the Aladdin) is a nice-looking new poker room located at the Las Vegas,
Strip near the front entrance to the casino. The poker room offers 12 tables with a variety of games, and Omaha - if there is any interest. It has become an increasingly popular venue and it's
is starting to get a bit crowded on weekends, but you'll usually be able to get a table within 30 minutes. Texas Holdem Compared to the largest casinos, Planet Hollywood is quite a laid-back
and comfortable environment - the plush chairs will allow you to sit back and observe as the poker games are played out in front of you. Read more... WSOP Circuit Shedule at Caesars Las
Vegas The World Series of Poker Circuit Championship at Caesars Palace, Las Vegas will be held April 20 - May 1, 2008. The $5,000 buy-in 3-day championship event will take place starting
April 29th. . Click here for the complete schedule Jerry Yang Wins 2007 World Series of Poker Jerry Yang, from Temecula, CA, won the 2007 World Series of Poker, praying his way to the top,
making a believer out of many of his opponents after God apparently was answering each and every one of his prayers for the right cards. Scotty Nguyen, Gus Hansen, Humberto Brenes Still
Alive After Day 4 Chip Leader Mikkelsen has 3.74 Million July 14, 2007 - Dag Martin Mikkelsen leads the way (3.74 M chips) followed by Charis Anastasiou (2.67 M) at the 2007 Main Event of
the World Series of Poker. remains a very good way to satellite one's way on the cheap into the prestigious world championship of No Limit Hold'Em poker, which would otherwise cost $10,000
Hevad "Rain" Khan, a player is still doing fantastic with 2.2 million in chips and currently reigns in 7th place, and ' Mr. Rain, (Jeff Banghart), is doing great as well with 1.6 million. The average
chip stack going into Day 5 with just over 100 players remaining is around 1,000,0000. Gus Hansen, nearly eliminated while all in pre-flop with 10 10 against his opponent's QQ, instead
doubled with a 10 on the flop and sits pretty with 1.6 million. Ex world champions Scotty Nguyen and Huck Seed are also poised for a possible repeat with 1.18 million and 1.55 million
respectively. Lee Watkinson (1.86 M) is another accomplished professional near the top. He is the 2006 WSOP Pot-Limit Omaha champion and has over $1 million in World Series of Poker
tournament winnings. Day 5 will play down to either 36 or 27 players depending on how things go and Day 6 Sunday will play down to the final table, which after a day off Monday, will be
played at the Tuesday July 17. PokerStars PokerStars Pokerstars Rio 808 Remain as "Rainy" Day 3 Begins Gus Hansen Among Chip Leaders July 12, 2007 - Day 28 concluded last night with
459 remaining players as play was halted at the exact moment of the same level that the 349 remaining players from Day 2A's play was halted. Day 3 begins at noon today with all 808
remaining players playing at the same time and in the same room, with about 20 minutes left in level 11. The overall chip leader is Rain Khan with 580,000 in chips. Rain played last night. Day
1A was led by Jon Moonves (570,000), putting him in 2nd place overall. Since Day 1A's Jeff "Mr Rain" Bangart (551,000) is now in 3rd place overall, that makes 2 out of the first 3 chip leaders
are associated with rain and hopefully will not be confused with each other during Day 3 or beyond. Whether either one rains on the parade of Gus Hansen (530,000), last night's 2nd in chips
finisher, remains to be seen. Hansen is the only superstar close to the top and is in 4th place overall. Blind player Hal Lubarsky (328,000) is having a remarkable tournament. There was
controversy as to whether or not he would be allowed to play since he needs an assistant to tell him everything that happens and poker is supposed to be a "one player per seat" game. Other
well-knowns in good shape from Day 28 are Chip Jett (260,000), Carlos Mortensen (260,000), Ted Forrest (255,000), Darrell "GigabetTM Dicken (250,000) of online fame, and J.C. Tran
(212,000). Others in not as good a shape but still kicking are Gavin Smith (150,000), 2002 champ Robert Varkonyi (150,000), Chris "Jesus" Ferguson (150,000), both daughter and son of
legend Doyle Brunson, Pamela (125,000), and Todd (95,000), colorful Humberto Brenes (95,000), and many others. Busted yesterday were Daniel Negreanu, Chris Moneymaker, John "the
razor" Phan, actor Jason Alexander, Allen Cunningham, and Phil Gordon, among hundreds of others. Both the "Rain" players represent . PokerStars Day 2A Survivors Include "Spiderman"
Closing in on Money Positions July 11, 2007 - Former World Series of Poker No Limit Champion Huck Seed (280,000 chips) is poised to make a splash, along with accomplished professional
Minh Ly (212,000 chips) in the 2007 World Series of Poker $10K buy-in Main Event, but spinning his web around unfortunate victims this year is movie star Tobey Maquire (150,000). Chip
leaders are (570,000 in chips) and qualifier (551,000). Scotty Nguyen has lost ground (74,000), but is still fighting as the field prepares itself to combine at the end of today's play. 350
players from day 2A remained when play was halted in the middle of a level last night to prevent an unfair situation when the money bubble approaches. Days 1C and 1D had far more players
than 1A and 18, which combined to make Day 2A. Therefore in order to ensure fairness when the entire field combines for Day 3 tomorrow, Day 2B will be halted in the middle of the same level
tonight. Had the full 5 levels of play happened as scheduled last night and bustouts continued to happen at a fast pace, the Day 2A players would've had a money clinched situation at the
expense of the larger field of Day 28 players. More notable players from Day 2A still in the hunt are Robert Mizrachi (159,000), brother of the famous grinder Michael, Billy Baxter (135,000),
and David Levi (56,500). Busted from Day 2A are, among others, are after getting off to a roaring-good start, Tom McEvoy, James Van Alstyne, Joe Sebok, Jeff Madsen, , Lou Krieger, Evelyn
Ng, Patrik Antonius, comedian Brad Garrett, and 2005 WSOP champ Joe Hachem. Day2B will see more well-known Day 1 survivors including 2002 & 2003 WSOP champs Robert Varkonyi and
Chris Moneymaker, as well as superstars Chris "Jesus" Ferguson, the well-chipped Ted Forrest (150,500), who was extremely short-stacked early in Day 1, Daniel Negreanu (43,100), Gus
Hansen, Carlos Mortensen, and last year's final tablists Allen Cunningham and Michael Binger.Jon Moonves PokerStars Jeff "Mr. Rain" BanghartDavid "The Dragon" PhamMiami John Cernuto
6,358, 2nd Largest Ever 2007 World Series of Poker Main Event Draws Respectable Number July 9, 2007 - As Day 1 of the WSOP main event draws to a close after 4 segments, A - D, the
official number of entrants is 6,358 making the total prize pool almost 10,000 times that number ($59,784,954). 1st prize in 2007 will be $8,250,000. Jamie Gold won $12,000,000 for his 1st
place finish last year, the largest prize ever for any sporting/gaming event. This year will be the 2nd greatest amount of prize money ever for ist place as well as the total prize pool. Not bad
considering the predictions of some that poker is on the way out now that the U.S. government has imposed its online ban to the game for many Americans. Some Day 1D participants still
around at dinner break time are Daniel Negreanu, John "the razor" Phan, Gavin Smith, David Chiu, Freddy Deeb, Carlos Mortensen, Antonio "The Magician" Esfandiari, Dutch Boyd, and Layne
Flack. Phil Hellmuth, arriving along with 11 beautiful women, 1 each for his 11 WSOP bracelets busted out today after a miserable showing. He was supposed to arrive in an race car, but he
crashed it yesterday in the parking lot. UltimateBet Poker Lives On 6,000 expected at 2007 WSOP Main Event July 7, 2007 - Day 1B brought more players than Day 1A and the official
estimate of the total has climbed to 6,000 with the newly created Day 1D. It is not too late to enter as of 7:00 PM on July 7. Entries are still being accepted for Days 1C and 1D as long as there
is availability. The chip leader is from Paris, France, Tinten Olivier, with 270,500 in chips. Among some of the other Day 1A notables that survived are Billy Baxter, Barry Greenstein, Jeff Madsen,
Minh Ly, Huck Seed, Brad Garrett, and Tobey McGuire. 445 survived the first heat of the 4-day Day 1's. Day 1B players still fighting as of the dinner break include Scotty Nguyen, one of the chip
leaders, Roland De Wolfe, Joe Sebok, Dan Hartington, Tom McEvoy, Patrik Antonius, Joe Hachem and Kathy Liebert. The entire poker industry collectively held it's breath until the 6,000 player
estimate came out, there were fears that the number would be so significantly smaller than last years record 8,700+ because of U.S. legislation attempting to ban the online variation of the
game with Americans that the game itself might die. Indeed, no direct satellite entries from online sites were accepted, but plenty of players just bought in anyway for the $10K and online sites
found ways around the barriers in place to send players via online satellites. , , , , and were all choices for players from the U.S. as well as other poker players to win seats via the online
satellite method for this year's . PokerStars FullTilt Poker Bodog UltimateBet Absolute Poker World Series of Poker World Series Main Event Begins July 6, 2007 - The Main Event of the 2007
World Series of Poker with a $10,000 buy-in and a prize fund of perhaps hundreds of millions began at 12 noon today, one of three day 1's, as organizers prepare for as many as 9,000 players.
Originally this year was to see a dramatic decrease in the number of participants due to legislation (see next article) prohibiting funding of online poker for U.S. players and the subsequent
decision of Harrah's Entertainment, the owner of the tournament, to ban the alignment of online sites to the WSOP name at this year's tourney. So, in other words, no online satellites to the big
dance this year. So why did we see so many online satellites to the big dance this year anyway? I guess the sites must have just given the winners $11K or $12K in cash and told them to go to
Vegas and play in the tournament. We will know soon enough whether last year's record 8,700+ entries will be approached or broken. The is held at the , on Flamingo Blvd, just West of the Las
Vegas Strip. 2007 World Series of Poker Rio U.S. Legislation appeared to be threatening online poker. And now Neteller has frozen every U.S. player's funds for an indefinite period of time in
the face of legal battles regarding money laundering accusations by the FBI. However, although many major poker sites have shut down their rooms to U.S. players, others stuck with it,
including some of the big ones, like ,,, , and . Business is brisk at these sites and others. Visit our friends at for suggestions on other online sites as well as some great poker news and poker
articles. PokerStars Absolute Poker FullTilt UltimateBet Bodog pokerteam.com Qualify for the WSOP The World Series of Poker is not one of the most famous and popular live poker events for
nothing. You don have to qualify through an intricate points and rankings system, heck you don even have to be a reasonable poker player to take part. Just pay the $10.00 and get to playin
After all, people who gained access this way in the past, turned out not to be such huge underdogs after all. Joe Hachem entered the tournament like that and he ended up winning it. This
doesn mean youl guarantee yourself a place ITM, though, it just comes to show how just about anyone can make it huge in the WSOP. Most people (like me) do not have $10,000 they want to
spend on a poker tourney though. Fortunately, not only is the WSOP not reserved for the good and recognized players, but it not even a privilege only or the rich to participate. You can qualify
for it via different satellites. Read more... Las Vegas Live Poker Writing about live poker facilities in Las Vegas is one hell of a challenge, in the sense that I cant possibly squeeze nearly
enough information about the scene into a regular-length article. Well, I guess I'll just have to single out those that are most representative of the world capital of gambling. With that in mind,
what better poker room could I pick to start with than the ? Quite possibly the classiest poker room in town, the Bellagio is the definition of professionalism. Vegas poker Bellagio Read more.
Playing in the 2007 WSOP The 2007 WSOP plans to outdo itself with an unprecedented 55 Events. The World Series of Poker will offer a variety of poker variants available to be played in a
wide range of buy-in denominations. The easiest way to play at the 2007 WSOP would be to directly buy-in. Buy-ins range from $1,000 to $50,000, with the Main Event costing $10,000 to enter.
There are other ways to get to the WSOP. The most popular being satellite tournaments. Satellite tournaments offer players a chance to win a seat for a minimal cost. Satellite tournaments are
offered in online casinos as well as land casinos. Satellite tournaments can be cheap or they can be expensive, either way, they are not an easy ticket to the main event of the WSOP. The
easiest ticket to the main event of the WSOP is to pay the 10K to enter. No-Limit Texas Holdem Read more... Jonathan Little Wins 2007 Mirage Poker Showdown Jonathan Little won the 2007
Mirage Poker Showdown, which was the opening event on season six of the World Poker Tour. The victory gave Little $1,066,295 in prize money and a seat in the $25,000 WPT Championship at
the . Bellagio The was packed with top-class poker players and in total 309 people entered the $10,000 main event. Jonathan Little made his way through the starting field, but it wasnt an
easy journey. Especially the final table was tough with players such as Phil Ivey, Darrel Dicken and Cory Carroll. Mirage in Las Vegas Texas Holdem Ivey, who according to the legend leamed the
before he could read, has never won a tournament on the World Poker Tour, so he was sure to bring his A-game to the final table. Jonathan Little didnt care about that, however, and ended
Ivey's WPT dreams early in the final day Texas Holdem rules ...read more... Fiesta Rancho Closes Poker Room As of May 13, 2007, the Fiesta Rancho Poker Room is closed to make way for
slots. With the closing, we say goodbye to a couple of nice little cheap buy-in tourneys, but across the street, takes up the slack with a $30 buy-in noon tourney 7 days a week. Also, not too far
away is which has a brand new quite large card room with a good tournament schedule. The noon and midnight tourneys at Fiesta Rancho were $25 buy-ins with a $10 rebuy for the midnight
tournament. The 2 Fiesta casinos (Rancho and Henderson) and the Stations casinos share the same management group along with , also in Henderson. Apparently, a consolidation was in the
best interests of the group. The trend we are noticing in Las Vegas poker right now is that some of the smaller rooms are eliminating tournaments or in this case, the entire poker room, while
other more established rooms are increasing their tourney schedule and drawing more entries for their existing tournaments. Poker in Las Vegas is definitely thriving, despite the hit taken by
U.S. online poker. Texas Station Santa Fe Station Green Valley Ranch Venetian's 2nd Deep Stack Extravaganza Flopped the Nuts First Time Earlier in 2007 , June 1 - July 1, 2007 promises to
be everything version 1 was and more. Back by popular demand, players get excited about the format, losts of starting chips and many different styles of poker besides no-limit holdem,
including H.0.R.S.E., Omaha Hi-Lo, and pot-limit Omaha. With a total prize pool of $1.6 million drawing 4,700 entrants in the first quarter of 2007, has decided to do it all over again. Visit the
schedule and the press release . This time, the tournament organizers have decided to go up against the , which starts the same day, June 1, 2007, across town at Harrah's owned . Last time
they went up against cross-street rival and did so well, they almost immediately decided to up the ante on some of their regular tournaments too, so that now, every day at noon, there is a
$300 + $30 or $500 + $40 buy event with a deep stack of chips to play with, whereas before their noon tourney cost was $110 + $15 + rebuy. The Venetian has one of the finest poker rooms
in Las Vegas and I think people are catching on. Deep Stack Extravaganza II Venetian here World Series of Poker The Rio Wynn Resort Plaza Eliminates Tourney Schedule Sticks With What
They Do Best, Single Table SnG's With , , and most recently downtown, all offering a generous tournament schedule, the decided to eliminate their tournaments altogether, slim down their
poker room, and offer Sit N Go $40 buy-in events all evening long, extending their popular daytime schedule until closing. The buy-in was recently raised to $40 from $35. Previously, the Plaza
held a 12 midnight tournament along with a 10am and 7pm event. The midnight event was not drawing the numbers they needed so along with the elimination of that one came the reduction
of poker room hours from 24/7 to 10 AM - 2 AM. Binion's Golden Nugget Fitzgeralds Plaza Carlos Mortensen Wins WPT Championship May 2, 2007 - Carlos Mortensen goes down in history as
the first poker player ever to have won both of the 2 most prestigious titles in the game, the World Series of Poker Main Event Championship (accomplished in 2001) and the World Poker Tour
Championship $25,000 buy-in Main Event, which just finished last Friday, Apr. 27. The win was worth $3.97 million in the 639 player tournament, which puts his career tournament earnings
total at $8.5 million, good for a top 10 in lifetime earnings achievement. Texas Holdem history The history of poker is a debatable issue, even though it has been the for centuries. Poker is
believed to have been mostly influenced by the German card game named Pochen and by the French game Poque, both meaning to knock. most popular card game Read more... Binion's $1
Million Grand Prix Event April 2-7, 2007 Benny's Bullpen is the site of the . is the former home of the World Series of Poker. The scheduled prize fund for the $550 buy-in event is $1,000,000,
but that figure is based on 2,000 entries. The first 4 days will be held in flights to accommodate all the expected players. Part of the auto racing spectacle scheduled for that time period in
downtown Las Vegas, the tournament is part of a master plan to hold many at Binion's, an effort to bring back the glory days of poker to the downtown gambling hall formerly known as
Binion's Horseshoe. A celebrity tourney is also scheduled Apr 7th as part of the poker festivities of the Grand Prix. Race car drivers are expected to play. For the main event, single table
satellites are running now with $65 and $125 buy-ins as well as super satellites every day at 6 pm with $120 buy-ins. Binion's is completing a remodeling project which includes new carpet,
new felts on the poker tables, and new wall coverings to replace the dark red.Poker Event at Vegas Grand Prix Binion's large events Player Types You'll Find in Las Vegas Card Rooms
Middle-stakes, no limit Texas holdem poker games attract a wide variety of players with many different styles of play. Successful middle stakes no limit players will be able to quickly identify
the different types of players and be aware of how to play against them. Here are some of the players you may see at your middle-stakes, no limit Texas holdem poker table. The Maniac:
At the same time the most desirable and often most feared type of poker player, this opponent seems not to understand the value of his chips or basic . He pushes chips in with reckless
abandon, before the flop, on the river, and anytime in between. When this type of player is getting lucky, he can be a fearsome opponent, as he almost always gets paid off on his big hands and
therefore can amass an enormous stack of chips. Texas holdem strategy Read more... Caesars to Start Deep Stack Tourneys 3/15/07 - has begun a true "deep stack" tournament Saturdays
at 3:30 pm, with players getting 7,500 in tournament chips. The buy-in for the event is $300 + $30. The blind and level structure is just like their regular daily tournaments, blinds starting at
25-50 and 40 minute levels. Single table satellites are available to gain entry into this promising event. The Caesars regular daily events at 12 noon and 7 pm give 1,500 starting chips with an
additional 3,000 chips for the single rebuy. Caesars Palace Hard Rock Expansion to Include Poker Room 3/12/07 - The Hard Rock Hotel & Casino, located on Harman Ave, just East of the Las
Vegas Strip, has been recently sold to a group called DLJ Merchant Banking Partners (DLJMB), and with the sale, as usual, comes new plans including a poker room. A new hotel tower and
restaurants/night clubs etc. will also be built. The Hard Rock has been active in the celebrity poker area, but now, after expansion expected to be completed by 2009, another new Las Vegas
poker room will be in existence. More information will be forthcoming as it comes in. O'Shea's Builds Real Poker Room Small Casino Tries to Get In On the Poker Action 3/12/07 - First they
deposited a couple of poker tables by the main entrance, the pedestrian strip walkway just steps away. That got a little part-time action, then a unique poker table like no others that got almost
no action, then a single conventional poker table up front, as before, but with a sign within sight that says "Poker Room" and now , the Irish themed casino nestled between the Flamingo and
Imperial Palace, has built a real poker room, with 4 tables and a tournament schedule. Open 11 am till 5 am and 24 hours Thursday - Sunday, the poker room at O'Shea's has some heavy
competition nearby because every one of the neighboring casinos has a larger poker room with an established clientele. The day I was at , there was nobody playing, 1/2 hour after opening
time, but who knows, this place could be just right for some poker players. Give it a chance, stop by and check it out. It's close to anything you need there, including McDonalds, Caesars
Palace, Bellagio, Imperial Palace, Flamingo, Panda Express, gift shops, a spray paint artist, an outdoor rock'n'roll bandstand bar, and a fun virtual ride kiosk among the other outdoor mall shops.
O'Shea's O'Shea's World Series of Poker 2007 Pre-registration begins 3/3/07 - Along with the announcement that the 2007 World Series of Poker pre-registration has begun, came a list of
new Harrah's rules and clarifications of existing rules. Poker site endorsements must bear the .net suffix and the suffix must be no smaller than the site name. 3rd party entries will not be
accepted if they're related to online poker sites that cater to U.S. players. This means of course that if you win a seat to the WSOP via , or any of the other U.S. friendly online sites that are
offering seats, they'll have to find an altemate way of entering you, perhaps the only way will be to give you the cash and hope you use it to pay for your seat. It will be interesting to see how
this develops. A couple other new logo-related rules have been instigated for the 2007 WSOP, which will again be held at the and begins with preliminary events June 1, 2007, while the
$10,000 buy-in main event is scheduled for about a month later. PokerStars Rio Caesars Hosts "Sweetheart" Event Couples in Alternating Format 2/8/07 - Valentine's season brings a special
kind of poker tournament at on Sunday, Feb. 11, 2007. A guy and a gal can team up together and play for some decent money for a $220 buy-in and have a lot of fun competing for good cash
prizes. Blind structures and pay-out structures are very similar to their regular noon and 7 PM daily tourneys at this 2nd annual tournament. With 40-minute levels and slowly increasing blinds,
the event promises each year to be a favorite on the circuit for both amateurs and poker professionals alike. Last year, 43 couples entered, alternating between ladies and men at each level
change. This year, I think the alteration occurs in the middle of each level, either way it's a blast! Caesars Palace Suncoast Opens New Poker Room 2/6/07 - Recently, one more poker room
was added to the already well-stocked Las Vegas area poker choice list. Tournaments at 10 AM every day & 7 PM Sun - Thurs are featured with small buy-ins with a 75% and 83% return on
buy-ins respectively. 12 tables in a spacious area back by the movie theaters makes for a very comfortable setting for Summerlin locals as well as visitors to this very nice casino/poker room.
Oldsters galore are to be found at the , a favorite among the retiree crowd. Summerlin is the world's largest master-planned community and is located in the Northwest part of Las Vegas. Go
North on U.S. 95 (which is really West until the Rainbow curve), get off at the Summerlin Parkway and follow that West until Rampart Blvd. and the Suncoast is South just a short ways down
Rampart. Suncoast Wynn, Venetian Schedule Special Events Simultaneously 2/4/07 - has entered the big poker tournament arena with the , scheduled to begin Feb. 21, 2007. Across Sands
Ave. to the South, the is holding a series of smaller buy-in tourneys ($330 - $540) at the same time, perhaps anticipating a big spill-over crowd from the Wynn. While the Venetian series,
dubbed the , is probably just a temporary replacement of their daily slighly lower buy-ins ($180 - $200 or so), the Wynn Classic appears to be aiming at competing with the likes of the World
Poker Tour and by holding events with preliminary tourney buy-ins ranging from $500 - $3,000 while sponsoring a $10,000 buy-in main event to conclude the series. Satellites begin Feb. 21,
2007, preliminary events begin the following day and the $10,000 buy-in championship tournament begins Mar. 8 with the final table Mar. 11. So far, we are not aware of any online satellite
opportunities. Venetian's series is called the Deep Stack Extravaganza because a starting stack of 6,000 and 10,000 in chips is offered, which promises to make skill more of a factor in the
volatile game of Texas Hold'Em. Omaha 8 or better, H.0.S., and Pot Limit Omaha are given 1 day each during the series which features No-Limit Texas Hold'em on each of the other tournament
days, the last of which will be Sunday, Mar. 11, 2007. The Wynn Resort Wynn Classic Venetian Deep Stack Extravaganza WSOP Riviera Tourneys Best Deal on the Strip Wide Variations Found
in Cost/Payout Ratios in Las Vegas 12/30/06 - Some poker tournaments in Las Vegas only pay back 69% or less of what they bring in, while others, like , give back a generous 85%. Located
on the North end of the Las Vegas Strip directly across the street from , the Riviera poker room tourney schedule is 3 a day most days, at 10 am and 1 & 8 pm. Buy-ins, with the optional
add-on, are $47. They have been drawing 2 - 4 tables full of players. Other good bargains on and off the strip that approach or exceed the 90% return rate are the , (more expensive), and the
Circus Circus regularly scheduled single-table events (but not the 11:30 am daily ones which are a downright rip-off). Many other single table sit'n'go bargains are out there. One interesting
small buy-in event that actually pays back 91% or so of what they take in, besides Riviera, and is still affordable for everyone, is , just East of the strip on Flamingo Blvd. Mainly a locals casino,
the Tuscany Poker Room does give a large percentage of players buy-ins/tourney fees back to the players in the form of prizes, but beware the blind structure, which gets brutal not far into the
tournament, favoring lucky players rather than skilled players. The Riviera Circus Circus Venetian Tuscany