By Alice D. Domar, Ph. D. Your bathroom can be a dangerous place and happens to be the one room in the house where most falls occur. A wet floor, damp walls and countertops, plus a
steamy, soapy tub or shower make the bathroom a challenging place to navigate for even the steadiest family members. The bathroom can be particularly hazardous when you're trying to
help your loved one with bathing. But with careful planning and knowing your and your loved ones limitations, you'll be able to handle this very personal, sometimes difficult task safely and
sensitively. Plan Ahead Before getting your loved one into the tub, follow these steps to find out the best way to handle bathing, including creating a safe environment that makes your job
easier and your loved one feel comfortable. Get Expert Guidance As the caregiver responsible for bathing your loved one, you should contact his/her physician or an occupational therapist
(OT) to get instructions and/or training on how to do this safely. Ideally, arrange for the OT to come to your home to show you the best ways to get your loved one in and out of the bathtub, as
well as provide information for safety items, such as grab bars, handrails, a transfer bench or bath seat, and a hand-held shower head/sprayer. If your loved one recently had surgery, his or
her physician can tell you about proper cleansing techniques for the affected area. Ask the doctor about any prescribed medications that could affect your loved ones balance and trigger a fall
If your loved one is taking a medication that could make him or her feel woozy or dizzy, be sure to schedule bath time prior to administering it. Knowing if there are any precautions to take will
help you make bath time a safe, manageable, and less stressful experience for you and your loved one. Make Safety a Priority , so your loved one can move easily in and out of this room and
the tub. Here are some tips to ensure its safety: A safe, accessible bathroom is a top priority any loose rugs on the floor Remove the room is well-lightedBe sure electrical appliances that are
in or near the tub Unplug to hang bath towels near the tub Use wall-mounted racks or grab bars on the walloutside and inside the tub Securely mount handrails If your tub has a and hang
a shower curtainremember to draw back the curtain before entering the tubglass door enclosure, remove it or safety treads on the bottom of the tubSet a non-skid mat and shampoo in
plastic bottles; set them within easy reachPut liquid soap bath items from around the tub, such as extra soap, shampoo, conditioners, body scrubs or safety razorsRemove unneeded or
comfortable bath seata stool, chair or reclining seatinside the tub or showerPlace a transfer bench shower head/sprayer to better control and direct water flowinsta hand-heldall into the
bathroom, so you can call for help in case of emergencyTake a portable phone Consider Your Safety in the Bathroom Now that you've made the bathroom safe for your loved one, you need to
consider as well. Be sure bathing your loved one is a task you can handle physically. If he/she is a much larger person than yourelative to body size and weightbathing your loved one may
be difficult and risky to health. For example, you may not be able to support his/her weight, particularly if you need to move him/her in and out of a bathtub. your safetyyour You may have to
consider other options, such as having another family member or an in-home health care professional assist with bathing. Also special lifts are available for use with loved ones who face
physical challenges, such as obesity and significant mobility issues. Unfortunately, lifts are heavy and occupy a lot of space. If your home has a small bathroom, a lift may not be a realistic
possibility to get your loved one in and out of a bathtub. Again, talk with your loved ones doctor or an occupational therapist about ways you can tactfully and realistically manage this

situation, Talk to Your Loved One _Your loved one can also help you make his/her bath a pleasant experience! Before bathing, ask him/her about preferences, but make sure you put safety
ahead of these preferences. For example, if you know your loved one is difficult to deal with during the late afternoon or early evening, don't offer this time as an option for bathing; rather,
schedule a bath for a time when he/she tends to be more relaxed and compliant with your requests. Sample questions you should ask include: Do you like warmer or cooler water? What
type or brand of soap and shampoo do you use? How often do you need to have your hair washed? Do you want to hold a towel in front of your body before, during and after your bath? For
men, how often do you prefer to shave? If you're a woman caring for a manother than your spouse or significant otheryou should ask him if he would prefer a male caregiver do the
bathing, and follow through as he requests. BathTime Now its time for bathing your loved one. Knowing his/her concerns desires can help you make this a dignified experience.and the
TubGetting In It may be difficult for your loved one to have you assume responsibility for bathing him or her, particularly if he or she has been independent until recently. and as the
caregiver, your loved ones need for Follow this routineor a similar oneto safely get your loved one into the tub: You both should start slowly and be patient with each other,respectprivacy.
 the entrance to the bathroom is clear of movable rugs or any object that could cause a fallMake sure and be sure its not too cold or too hot"Check the room temperature to a
comfortable level (one-third to one-half full) and temperature (usually around 100 degrees F) Pre-fill the tub to use the toilet before bathingAsk your loved one on the closed toilet seat or
bath chair to undressHave him/her sit , as needed Help with removing his/her clothing to help your loved one get into the tub. This can be a flat bed sheet, folded lengthwise, or a thin, long
towel, also folded lengthwise.Use a safety belt around your loved ones waist. Tie it at the back. You will be holding the belt at the back.Wrap this soft safety belt When you're both ready,
on the side of the tub with both feet on the floorseat your loved one into the tub; if he/she needs assistance, you can lift his/her legs into the tubAsk him/her to swing one foot at a time

before easing him/her slowly Make sure your loved one is steady"into a seated position in the water To do this, he/she can or hold a grab bar or handrail with one hand and use the other
hand to hold your forearmput his/her hands on both sides of the tub. you lower your loved one into the water.The safety belt may help depending on your loved one's size and physical abilities,
you may need to have another persons assistance or use a transfer bench or special lift to get your loved one into the tub. If a transfer bench is used, your loved one should sit on the seat
outside the tub, hold the handrail and then slide across the seat into the tub:Another consideration or sheet (unless your loved one prefers using it for privacy) and let him/her do the bathing
if he/she's capable while you sit nearby. Never leave your loved one unattended.Once in the tub, remove the towel cannot manage bathing on his/her own, gently washhis/her face first,
and genitals last If your loved onedont scrub of the TubGetting Out _If your loved one needed your assistance getting into the tub, he/she will also need your help getting out. Here's what
you can do to make this task easy and safe: to reduce the possibility of your loved one slippingDrain the tub around your loved ones waistSecurely place the safety belt to put his/her hands
on both sides of the tub or hold a grab bar or handrail with one hand and use the other hand to hold your forearmAsk your loved one on the side of the tub; both feet should remain inside the
tubHelp him/her to a sitting position at a time, or you can assist with this task while holding the safety beltHave him/her gently take one foot out of the tub to get your loved one into the tub,
you'll need this help again _ If you needed another person's assistance he/she should hold the handrail and slide across the seat from the inside to the outside of the tub before standing up
with your assistancelf your loved one is sitting on a transfer bench, enough to stand, so you can move and seat him/her on the closed toilet seat or bath chairBe sure your loved one feels
steady with his/her face and finishing at his/her feetSoftly dry him/her starting deodorant, and/or moisturizing lotion Apply powder, remember to set out his/her clean clothes a bath, so
he/she can be dressed promptly and not get a chillHelp your loved one to dress:before to his/her room or another comfortable place in your homeAccompany your loved one wash your hands
and clean-up the bathroomWhen you're finished, Alternative Bathing Most people do not need a full bath every day. A sponge bath is a refreshing alternative. Just be sure to wash daily your
loved one's face, hands and genital areas, and provide him/her with fresh undergarments. The frequency of bathing will depend on your loved one's level of activity and ability to use a toilet,
So you can increase or decrease the need to bath depending on these factors. Bathing your loved one can be a difficult, time-consuming and sometimes unpleasant task. But with planning and
patience, you and your loved one can manage it together. Resources