955 (as of 2008) [2] Civilians 180 (as of 2004) [3] Agency executive Colonel Fred K. Lancaster, Jr., Commander Special Units ACE/Motorcycle/K9 MAIT CERT Insurance Enforcement
Facilities Footnotes Division of the country, over which the agency has usual operational jurisdiction. Divisional agency: The () is a division of the responsible for enforcing the traffic laws of
the of . Since the Patrols formation in 1930, the South Carolina Highway Patrol has enforcing the rules and regulations in order to ensure road safety as outlined by South Carolina law. It is the
largest police agency in South Carolina with about 1,114 employees, of whom 910 are sworn Troopers, and 204 civilians according to SCHP website.South Carolina Highway PatrolSCHP South
Carolina Department of Public Safety state South Carolina Contents SCDPS Deputy Director/SCHP Commander - Colonel Fred K. Lancaster, Jr. SCHP Deputy Commander - (Vacant) Field
Operations Region One - (Vacant) Troop One - Captain Leroy Taylor Troop Two - (Vacant) Troop Three - Captain Neal F. Brown Troop Four - Captain Marc S. Wright Community Relations
Office - Sergeant Roger K. Hughes Field Operations Region Two - Major (Vacant) Troop Five - Captain Melvin Warren Troop Six - Captain James A. Woods Troop Seven - Captain Christopher
N. Williamson Support Services - Major (Vacant) Troop Eight/Aggressive Criminal Enforcement Team (ACE) - Captain C.J. Madden Troop Eleven/Headquarters - (Vacant) Training Unit -
Captain Darryl A. Kelly Grants Office Administrative Services - Major Russell W. Stewart Troop Nine/Multidisciplinary Accident Investigation Team - Captain (Vacant) Troop Ten/Insurance
Enforcement - Captain W.S. Reid SCHP Communications - Captain Michael R. Oliver [] edit Highway Patrol duties South Carolina Highway Patrol Dodge Charger The agency has specific
jurisdiction over all South Carolina state highways, U.S. Highways, Interstate highways in the state and all public roads. Local city police or the counties sheriff's department having a contract
with an incorporated city have responsibility to investigate and enforce traffic laws in incorporated cities. However, the SCHP can still enforce traffic laws on any public road anywhere in the
state regardless if it is in an incorporated or unincorporated city. SCHP has seniority any incident that would require a Troopers response. SCHP officers are responsible for investigating and
disposing of , debris, and other impediments to the free flow of traffic. They are often the first government officials at the scene of an accident (or obstruction), and in tur summon EMS/Fire,
drivers or SCDOT personnel. The SCHP files traffic collision reports for state highways and within unincorporated areas. car accidents dead animals tow truck