Trumpet Studio is about: Trumpet lessons and trumpet books by Michael Droste. Thousands of trumpet students worldwide helped from amateur to pro level have been helped through these
articles and consultations. Articles on this site include: mouthpieces, range, practicing, lip buzzing, recordings, trumpet method books, equipment, oil, braces and issues, technical study, warm,
up routine, midi files, staff paper, trumpet scales, and finally work pages. Check out our trumpet lessons, our online trumpet lessons and our trumpet books. Trumpet playing, trumpet lessons,
trumpet books. Trumpet Studio covers these topics: trumpet, trumpet playing, trumpet lessons, trumpet books, Stevens, Superchops, Maynard Ferguson, mouthpieces, Bach, Bill Chase, Callet,
Schilke, Doc Severinsen, Yamaha, Maggio, embouchure, trumpet books, trumpeter, trumpeting, Marsalis, Louis Armstrong - Thanks for visiting TrumpetStudio.com - Michael Droste HIGH
NOTE PLAYING - RANGE PLAYING IN THE UPPER REGISTER There is a systematic approach to playing high notes on a consistent basis. The four most important aspects are: S First, you must
have air the reserves ready to be called up at a moments notice. I believe that the type of air needed to play lead is most closely related to a High Pressure Air Tank. You must tank up on the
air and release the valve, releasing the Super Fast Air Stream. When playing lead one should ride this high pressure air stream. Let the High Pressure Air Tank and the subsequent Super Fast
Air Stream help do the work. Next, Tongue Position should also be addressed. Saying ah lowers the tongue and increase the VOLUME of air. We don't want volume, but a Super Fast Air
Stream. Saying ee arches the tongue and "INCREASES AIR SPEED' for high note playing. Lip Position. Imagine you have a tennis ball in your fingertips - now squeeze! This squeeze or pushing
of your lips together is needed to play high. I personally use what people have called the Superchop Method I pivot to push the lips over the top teeth and arch my tongue to alter the air
stream. My lower lip curls in over the top of the bottom teeth. The top lip slightly overlaps the lower lip. The lip compression comes from pulling all of the muscles in toward the center. Finally,
one must use a Super Fast Air Stream. The key is to achieve an incredible velocity of air, not quantity. The velocity must be so fast that it screams through the horn like a Mach 4 fighter jet. I
mean fast! You should not puff your cheeks at anytime, check in a mirror. If you are puffing your cheeks, take your hand and literally hold your checks in, until your muscles are strong enough
to do it on its own. Your goal is to obtain this Super Fast Air Stream INSTANTLY. It is the air speed, combined with lip and tongue position, that will give you success in the upper register. Using
the ,,, and must also practice high note playing . I often take the Clarke Studies up to the next octave for practicing. Or perhaps you could practice the leads to your favorite big band or pop
charts. .(1)High Pressure Air Tank(2)Tongue Position(3)Lip Position(4)uper Fast Air Stream (1)It's the of air, but the of the air stream.notQUANTITYSPEEDPlaying high notes actually requires
quite a small quantity of air. (2)