Dr. Johnson's credentials He was a at the University of Illinois where he received his He completed a residency and taught veterinary surgery at The Ohio State University, where he also
received aDr. Johnson is one of only a few veterinarians in the world to have earned three doctorate degrees.University Scholar.Doctorate in Veterinary Medicine ( D.V.M.).Masters in Veterinary
Surgery Dr. Johnson's holistic training includes aCertification in Veterinary Acupuncture, A Doctorate in Naturopathy (N.D., Magna Cum Laude), and a Ph.D. in Nutrition (Magna Cum Laude)

Dr. Johnson has had an intense interest in both veterinary and human health since childhood. One of his first summer jobs during college involved working at the Quaker Oats Research facility
in his home town of Barrington, Illinois. In this position he worked with veterinarians and Ph.D. nutritionists in the development of new dog and cat foods. During Veterinary School one of his
summer jobs involved a position working in the Department of Microbiological and Pharmaceutical Research for Baxter Laboratories in Morton Grove, Illinois. In this position he was part of a
team that developed antibiotics for resistant bacterial organisms in animals and humans. During his residency in veterinary surgery at The Ohio State University, Dr. Johnson completed courses
in human surgery, and spent a great deal of time at the Medical School's Teaching Hospital. At the medical school and at the veterinary school he was involved in the development of
microsurgical transplantation procedures. These procedures are now used to reattach severed limbs. He wrote his Master's Thesis on the Transplantation of Skin by Microsurgical Vascular
Anastomosis. As a veterinary student he received the Governor's Grant. As a recipient of this grant he was able to spend summers working with many leading veterinary practitioners
throughout the State of Illinois.Dr. Johnson has a firm background in research and academics, however, he has always been more inclined to the clinical environment. For the first 10 years of
his practice career he worked on dogs, cats, and horses. After that, he limited his practice to dogs and cats. Dr. Johnson has treated many famous dogs, cats, and horses. During this time Dr.
Johnson invented a number of orthopedic techniques for fracture repair which were published in veterinary journals. Dr. Johnson applied for and received patent approval from the United States
Patent Office for the instruments and appliances used in these procedures. During this period he practiced general medicine, internal medicine, general surgery, and orthopedic surgery. His
work in orthopedics caused him to seek the advice of Chiropractors, Herbalists, and Acupuncturists for problem cases. Dr. Johnson became convinced that alternative medicine had a role in
veterinary care. By 1970 he was already importing herbs and oils, and dispensing his own formulations to his clients for their animals. Nutrition and natural medicine became more and more a
part of his life, both personal and in his practice of veterinary medicine. The mobile practice was started in 1988. This practice has allowed him far more time for continuing study, than was
possible as director of a veterinary hospital with a large staff.From 1978-1988, he was the Hospital Director & Chief of Staff, The Florida Veterinary Medical Center.As Chief of Staff for an
A.A.H.A. Certified Central Veterinary Hospital, Dr. Johnson gained invaluable experience with difficult cases, however he desired more time for advanced study in natural medicine. Dr. Johnson
formalized his training in veterinary acupuncture by completing the International Veterinary Society's Acupuncture Certification Program.He is a certified veterinary acupuncturist (C.V.A.). Dr.
Johnson's formal studies in natural health and nutrition included courses with the American College of Natural Health (A.C.N.H.), the American College of Holistic Nutrition (A.C.H.N.), and the
Clayton College of Natural Health (C.C.N.H.). These studies included many advanced nutrition courses, advanced herbology, homeopathy, various body therapies, nutrition and physical
degeneration, immunology, environmental poisons and detoxification, oriental nutrition, alternative approaches to arthritis and cancer, psychodietetics, counseling, and many other areas. Both
doctoral dissertations concerned the topics of veterinary and human holistic integrative medicine. In 1998 he completed a dual doctorate program earning a Naturopathic Doctorate (N.D.) and a
Ph.D. in Nutrition. Dr. Johnson participated in a diinic rotation with Dr. Michelle Tighimann, Dr. Pat Zook, and Dr. Dwight Hooton, at the Loving Touch Animal Hospital in Stone Mountain,

Georgia. All Three Veterinarians are excellent traditional veterinarians and are each Certified Veterinary Acupuncturists. Dr. TighImann is a recent past-president of the American Holistic
Veterinary Association. They also integrate traditional with alternative modalities.Dr. Johnson has working relationships with many leading veterinary practitioners, private clinics, and university
teaching hospitals. Dr. Johnson is a member of the American Veterinary Medical Association, the American Holistic Veterinary Association, the Intemational Society of Veterinary Acupuncture,
the American Academy of Veterinary Acupuncture (Charter Member), the Botanical Veterinary Medical Association (Charter Member), and many other local and regional associations. Dr.
Johnson has passed state licensing examinations in Illinois, Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Florida, Arizona, and California. Dr. Johnson is a member of The National Military Intelligence
Association, Who's Who in the State of Florida, Who's Who in Veterinary Medicine, Intemational Who's Who of Professionals, and was recently selected as one of the Outstanding People of the
21st Century. In addition to continuing to operate his mobile practice, he is a senior veterinarian at the new & sees clients one afternoon/week at Pet Parade Animal Clinic in North Miami. He is
also the staff veterinarian for one of the largest kennels in the U.S. Country Inn Pet Resort & Animal Hospital Dr. Johnson's interests over the years have included track and field competition,
competitive tennis, baseball, basketball, SCUBA diving, piano, trombone (professional), concert organ, sailing, fishing, hiking, biking, and gourmet cooking. He has also raised German
Shepards, Rottweilers, Dobermans, Minature Pinchers, Poodles, Persian cats, Abyssinian cats, Hereford cattle, Quarterhorses, Thoroughbreds, and Standardbreds. Dr. Johnson has
professionally trained Quarterhorses and Thoroughbreds. His family raised Quartethorses, Hereford cattle and German Shepards, and Persian cats. Other interests have included the performing
arts, especially jazz and the classics, ancient history, western art, archeology, meteorology, current events, military intelligence, space exploration, and digital photography. Most recently he
has renewed his old interest in refurbishing vintage trombones, and is performing regular trombone concerts with four different types of trombone.