Guillory, John. " . Ed. Carla Mazzio and Douglas Trevor. Culture Work. New York: Routledge, 2000. 82-109. To please the wiser sort: Violence and Philosophy in Hamlet.
Historicism,Psychoanalysis, and Early Modern Culture Hart, Jeffrey. ". By Hart. New Haven: Yale UP, 2001. 169-86. Hamlet's Great Song. Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe:Toward the
Revival of Higher Education Matheson, Mark. ". 46 (Winter 1995): 383-97. Hamlet and A matter tender and dangerous Shakespeare Quarterly Mousley, Andrew. *. Hamlet. Ed. Mark
Thornton Bumett and John Manning. Collection 1. New York: AMS, 1994. 67-82. Hamlet and the Politics of Individualism New Essays onHamlet Usher, Peter. *. 4 (Fall 2001): 25-49. Advances
in the Hamlet Cosmic Allegory Oxfordian Wagner, Valeria. "." . Ed. Andrew Hadfield, Dominic Rainsford, Tim Woods. New York: St. Martins, 1999. 73-85. The Unbearable Lightness of Acts The
Ethics in Literature Weitz, Morris. ". . Ed. Morris Weitz and Margaret Collins. New Studies in Aesthetics 10. New York: Lang, 1995. 17-33. Hamlet : Philosophy the Intruder Shakespeare,
Philosophy, and Literature: Essays Wright, Eugene P. 01.0 Studies 4 (1992): 19-31. Hamlet: From Physics to Metaphysics Hamlet Amtower, Laurel. The Ethics of Subjectivity in." 21.2 (Dec
1994): 120-33. HamletStudies in the Humanities HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL This article approaches as an exploration of the crisis of selfhood that results when Aquinas carefully observed
laws collide, collapsing the hierarchical structure of being that defines the individual into a jumble of conflicting perspectives (123). In the play, any event in its actuality tends to get lost, and
gives rise instead to a story or interpretation on the part of a witnessing agent, which then achieves a certain life of its own (124). For example, the murder of Old Hamlet is never known in
its actuality, but is instead delivered as , filtered through the suspicious perspectives of the characters, and acted upon accordingly (124). After gaining information about his fathers murder,
Hamlet responds to the call for revenge by attempting to justify the task within the theological and political framework that structures not only his ethical sensibilities, but his very sensibilities
regarding who and what he " (125). Hamlet is thus placed into a subjective crux within which intersect the exclusive values which frame his very being (125). But by believing he acts for a
higher agency (e.g., the Ghost/father) and thus dismissing the claims of his own integrity, Hamlet begins to reinscribe the entities and relationships around him into narratives and texts, to
be negotiated and interpreted according to his own absolute gloss (126). For him, absolutes become fluid, and life is nothing but a language game" (126). Unfortunately, Hamlet is not just
a player of games comprised of words and deceptions, but a product of these games (128). He feigns madness and manipulates , all language-based methods, to extract truth from
othersbut egotistically neglects the fact that the truth he seeks might well be a product of his own discursive devising (129). Leaving behind humanity and morality, he appoints himself
scourge and minister (131) and perverts the discourse of religious dogma in the pursuit of selfish ends, for the subject at the end of this play is a tyrant, using the discourse of power to
justify his abandonment of individual ethics (132).HamletinformationisThe Mousetrap Cefalu, Paul A. Damned Custom . . . Habits Devil: Shakespeare's , Anti-Dualism, and the Early Modem
Philosophy of Mind. 67 (2000): 399-431. <wysiwyg://31/http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/elh/vo67/67.2cefalu.html> 8 May 2001. HamletELH HAMLET / HISTORY OF IDEAS / PHILOSOPHICAL
This essay briefly examines some modem and pre-modern theories of the mindthose of Gilbert Ryle, Putnam, Augustine, Pomponazzi, and Jeremy Taylorin order to suggest first that
Renaissance philosophy and theology held theories of the mind that resemble modern-day anti-dualistic accounts of behaviorism and functionalism, and second that Shakespeare's is implicated
in this behaviorist-functionalist tradition rather than in the innatist tradition into which it has usually been placed (400). Too often critics mistakenly conflate third-person statements about
Hamlets mental states with Hamlet's first-person reports, reports which aim to understand the role of behavior, habit, and custom in knowing and acting, rather than to explore any Cartesian
theater of the mind (400). In actuality, for most of the play Hamlet is a radical Rylean behaviorist, inasmuch as he believes mental phenomena and predicates gain meaning only when they
are identified in a one-to-one relationship with behavioral predicates (400). Shaping Hamlet's behaviorism is the early modem assimilation of the Augustine-Protestant theory of the
ineradicability of vicious habits (400). Hamlets understanding of the theological construal of habit helps to explain both his irresolution . . . and his sense that personal identity or subjective
states are identical with customary behavioral dispositions (400-01). In reifying and objectifying habits, he imagines persons to be constituted by behavior, custom, and dispositional states all
the way down, so that they are unendowed with what Derek Parfit would describe as any further facts to their psychological identity, such as disembodied minds or thoughts (401). "Hamlet
inherits a widely-held Augustine-Protestant preoccupation with the tortured relationship among habit, sin, and action. If there is any incredible objective correlative operating in the play, it
describes Hamlets over-indulgence in, and misconstrual of, this tradition, which recognized the utility of retaining virtuous patterns of conduct as correctives to customary sin (428).Hamlet
Guillory, John. To please the wiser sort: Violence and Philosophy in. . Ed. Carla Mazzio and Douglas Trevor. Culture Work. New York: Routledge, 2000. 82-109.

HamletHistoricism Psychoanalysis, and Early Modern Culture NEW HISTORICISM / PHILOSOPHICAL This essay explores the difference between philosophy and theology as early modern
discourses; philosophy . . . can be seen to counter the fratricidal or sectarian violence provoked by theological dispute (84). Philosophy appears as a discourse that in the sixteenth century
could contemplate its own incompleteness, in contrast to the field of theology, where every position violently excluded some other position (87-88). Given the period's budding interest in
materialism, the ambiguities of the Ghost and Hamlet's obsession with matter (e.g., dirt, dust) suggest that contains "the performance of philosophy (93). Perhaps the intent was to attract a
sub-sect of the elite audience towards the common theater and away from the child troupes (93). This particular audience was well aware of how the court's elaborate machinery of ceremony,
manners, and fashion served to sublimate the violence latent in struggles for position or patronage (97). But violence was never completely eradicated, as methods of intrigue and
faction"both prevalent in provided alternatives (97). Hamlet initially attempts to expose rather than avenge his fathers murder by resorting to the cultural form of the theater (99). But
fails him and delegitimates not Claudius but court society itself (99). Philosophy, an alternative to violence, can only provide Hamlet with temporary relief (102). He ultimately embraces
providence, God, etc., marking the moment when theology overtakes the play not to announce an exilic peace, but to incite violence (103). Perhaps Shakespeare attempted to provoke the
wiser sort to entertain the most radical pacific of philosophical thoughts, what we now call materialism, the great philosopheme of early modemity (104).HamletHamletThe Mousetrap Hart,
Jeffrey. "Hamlets Great Song. . By Hart. New Haven: Yale UP, 2001. 169-86. Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe: Toward the Revival of Higher Education HAMLET / HISTORY OF IDEAS /
PHILOSOPHICAL While continuing the monographs argument that the Renaissance was marked by the intellectual availability of various and often incompatible ways of looking at the world
(e.g., Christianity, Machiavellism) (181), this chapter contends that, in Hamlet, Shakespeare clearly decided to express a wide range of poetic possibilities and make him the epitome of his
agethe artistic product is a credible human being and even a credible genius (175). Hamlet fully engages most or even all of the contradictory possibilities of the Renaissance, from the
lofty aspirations of Pico della Mirandola to bottomless skepticism, from the ideals of humanism to recurrent thoughts of suicide, from the intellectual reaches of Wittenberg to mocking cynicism
and an awareness of the yawning grave (178). The stature of Prince Hamlet as a great tragic hero rests upon the fact that though in all practical terms he was a catastrophethose bodies all
over the stagehe nevertheless gave himself to and fully articulated the cosmos available to him in all of its splendor, horror, and multiple contradiction (182). What Hamlet says becomes the
core of the play. It is his voice, not his deeds, that dominates the stage . . ." (169). The great loss, the terror, we feel at the end of the play comes from the realization that his voice, that great
song, is now stilled and that nothing like it will be heard again (169). Jenkins, Harold. To be, or not to be: Hamlets Dilemma. Hamlet 13 (1991): 8-24. Studies HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL /
TO BE, OR NOT TO BE SOLILOQUY This article suggests that the question of to be, or not to be, though it does not relate directly to Hamlet's particular problems, is nevertheless evoked by
Hamlet's dramatic role, so that the heros particular dilemma is set in context with an archetypal dilemma which enables it to be viewed in a universal perspective (13-14). The question is
applied to the universal man in whom the particular revenger is subsumed (21). Hamlet, no less than Augustine, is working out a theorem, which is of general application (13) based on a
fundamental questionperhaps " fundamental oneconceming human life, the desirability of having it at all (12). The response found in this famous soliloquy seems a grudging
affirmative: one decides in favour of life from a fear that death might be worse (21-22). But the answer that springs from Hamlet when he speaks of his own individual plight and gives vent
to his personal feelings is most often negative, the answer which Augustine thought improbable and even reprehensible (22). For example, directly after the To be, or not to be soliloquy,
Hamlet rejects Ophelia, rejecting life and its opportunities for love, marriage and procreation. It is the choice of not to be (22). Yet this negative answer is not the plays's final answer ( 22).
In the graveyard scene, Hamlet comes to accept his mortal destiny, thus allowing him to achieve the readiness to do the deed of revenge which he has so long delayed (22). Ultimately,
Hamlet and Laertes both avenge their fathers murders as well as forgive and absolve one another"suggesting a very moral play (23). recognizes original sin, the presence of evil in mans
nature; and it accepts that guilt must be atoned for (23). It offers us a hero who, in a world where good and evil inseparably mingle, is tempted to shun the human lot but comes at length to
embrace it, choosing finally to be (23).thesicHamlet_Kallay, Geza. "'To be or not to be and Cogito, ergo sum: Thinking and Being in Shakespeare's Against a Cartesian Background. [no vol
#] (1996): 98-123, HamletAnaChronist HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL This essay juxtaposes some aspects of a dramatised, metaphorical display and a systematically argued, conceptualised
presentation of the question as to the relationship between thinking and being, while drawing on Cavells insightful dramatisation of Descartes universal doubt on the one hand, and on the
widely-known (though of course by no means exclusive) conception of Hamlet as the tragic philosopher on the other (102). According to Descartes, thinking ensures the fact of his existence,
and, further, the existence of God, who will, in turn, ensure the existence of the Universe (120). In comparison, "Hamlet uses thinking not so much to settle the question of what exists and
what does not, but to give its extent, to mark out its born, the frontier dividing being and non-being, only to see one always in terms of the other. The major reason for Descartes and
Hamlet's different approaches is, of course, that in Hamlet's world there is no final and absolute guarantee: in Shakespeare's God seems to interfere neither with thinking, nor with being
(120). But, late in the play, Hamlet claims, There is a divinity that shapes our end (5.2.10). These words signify that his principle of possibility in full operation, paraphrasable as follows: It
is indeed doubtful to count with God as an absolute guarantee. But this uncertainty should not make us discard the . It be the case that he is even willing to ensure and assure us through his
bare existence or otherwise, so we give both alternatives equal chance. (121).Hamletpossibilitymightmust Landau, Aaron. 'Let me not burst in ignorance: Skepticism and Anxiety in . 82.3
(June 2001): 218-30. HamletEnglish Studies GHOST / HAMLET / HISTORY OF IDEAS / NEW HISTORICISM / PHILOSOPHICAL / THEOLOGICAL This essay proposes that, by considering within
the context of the Reformation and the concurrent skeptical crisis, the distinctly epistemological making of Hamlet's ineffectuality takes on an intriguing historical dimension: it suggests the
utter ineffectuality of human knowledge as this ineffectuality was advocated by contemporary skeptics (218). The opening scene presents the debacle of human knowledge (219), the
mixed, inconsistent, confused, and tentative versions of human understanding through the uselessness of Horatios learning to communicate with the Ghost and the in-conclusiveness of
Bernardos Christian narrative to explain the spirit (220). This contradistinction with standard versions of early modern skepticism, which vindicate and embrace human ignorance as against
the violent pressures of early modern religious dogmatism, suggests Shakespeare to be anxious about uncertainty and its discontents in a way that Greek and humanist skeptics never are
(220). Hamlet's direct echoing of contemporary thinkers as diverse as Montaigne and Bruno only strengthens the impression that the play, far from representing a systematic or even coherent
line of thought, virtually subsumes the intellectual confusion of the age (221). The ghost functions as the very emblem of such confusion (221), withholding "the type of knowledge most
crucial to early modem minds: religious knowledge (220). The "very issues that are associated, in the Gospels, with the defeat of skeptical anxiety, had become, during the Reformation, axes
of debate, rekindling skeptical anxiety rather than abating it (223). In this context, the Ghost appears as an implicit, or inverted, revelation (222), a grotesque, parodic version of Christ
resurrected (223): instead of elevating Hamlet to a truly novel and unprecedented level of knowledge (224), the Ghost leaves Hamlet with nothing but ignorance (222). Hamlet claims to
believe the Ghost after , but his ensuing blunders debunk the sense of certainty that he pretends to have established (227). The problem seems the inescapably political world of
Denmark, where errors, partial judgements, and theological (mis)conceptions are never only academic, they cost people their lives and cannot, therefore, be dismissed as unavoidable and
innocuous imperfections or indifferent trifles, as Montaigne and Pyrrhonist believe (228).HamletThe Mousetrap Lawrence, Sean Kevin. As a stranger, bid it welcome: Alterity and Ethics in and
the New Historicism. 4.2 (2000): 155-69. HamletEuropean Journal of English HAMLET / NEW HISTORICISM / PHILOSOPHICAL After exploring the competing theories of Levinas and Heideggar
and supporting the first, this essay contends that while Hamlet recognizes the ethical demands impinging upon him, he avoids them"; he attempts to reduce the Other to the Same (163).
The Ghost ultimately charges Hamlet to "Remember me (1.4.91), and Hamlet writes down the order. But penning the command is a significant gesture in Hamlet's effort to sidestep it, to
transform it into my word (1.5.110) (167). "Hamlet tries to avoid the past as responsibility, defining the Ghost and thereby conquering its alterity (167). Hamlet also tries to conquer/control
death by killing (166). For example, in the prayer scene, Hamlet decides to refrain from murder until he cannot only control Claudius death, but also effectively avert any threat that his ghost,
like the elder Hamlet's, might return from purgatory (166). To bring death within his control and to avoid the conscientious claim which the death of the Other would have upon him, Hamlet
must tum the Other into something at least theoretically capable of appropriation (166). But Hamlet's struggles against conscience only end in his becoming a sort of tyrant (163). Like
Hamlet, critics try to shake the hold which the past as Other has upon us, but new historicists should avoid repeating Hamlet's mistakes (169). Levy, Eric P, Nor th exterior nor the inward
man: The Problematics of Personal Identity in . 68.3 (Summer 1999): 711-27. HamletUniversity of Toronto Quarterly HAMLET / NEW HISTORICISM / PHILOSOPHICAL This essay argues that
profoundly critiques prevailing assumptions regarding this relation [of inner/outer dimensions], and dramatizes an alternate conceptualization of human identity (711). In , inwardness is,
notoriously problematic and in need of outward verification (712). But outward verification of inwardness is itself notoriously problematized in the world of the play, where characters hide
behind false exteriors to probe behind the presumedly false exteriors of another (715). While exemplifying this problem in the play, Claudius and Polonius hiding behind the curtain to spy on
Hamlet and Ophelia also epitomizes the notorious discord between inward and outward during the Renaissance (715). The periods emphasis on self-presentation led to suspicions
concerning authenticity (715); hence, Hamlet applauds the actors skills at simulating the emotions deemed appropriate (717). This stress on outwardness also created an inconsolable
isolation, as individuals had to conform to the moral expectations of their audiences rather than their own inner worlds (716). In the play, death appears as a metaphor for the plight of
inwardness, isolated from authentic and intelligible outward expression (717). For example, the Ghost's private suffering cannot be spoken of because the horror is too great (717), and a
dying Hamlet's assertion that "the rest is silence (5.2.363) associates death with the incommunicable privacy of that centre of interiority" (718). But, in the closet scene, Hamlet seems to
realize that behavior can do more than confirm the inmost part. It can also modify or transform it (722). He directs Gertrude to Assume a virtue (3.4.162), not a false appearance, but a
sincere imitation of virtue in order to overcome habits evil (3.4.164)" (723). This notion of cathartic action, outward expression becomes the means of effecting inward reform (725).
Unfortunately, Hamlet cannot completely reconcile the inner/outer reciprocal estrangement in the world of the play because he does not possess exclusive control (724). The play ends with
Horatios and Fortinbras eulogies of the Prince, which transform Hamlet's own exterior man (724).HamletHamlet Levy, Eric P. Things standing thus unknown: The Epistemology of
Ignorance in ." 97 (Spring 2000): 192-209. HamletStudies in Philology HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL This artide approaches as an epistemological tragedy in which the need to know collides
with the need to maintain the security of ignorance which, in tum, intensifies the turmoil caused by unexpected knowledge (193-94). While some of the play's characters (e.g., Claudius) work
to maintain ignorance of the truth, those who gain knowledge (e.g., Hamlet) consequentially suffer; hence, the urge to know threatens the safety of ignorance (199). The play's fundamental
epitemological problem seems the disruptive effect of acquiring knowledge. Yet in ,the knowledge most urgently needed but most reluctantly acquired is " (198). A review of Platonic notions
suggests that one achieves self-knowledge through the recognition/acceptance of ignorance and the exertion of self-control (201). In this light, Hamlet's delay is the means by which he
progressively directs the need to know towards its morally obligatory goal: self-knowledge (207). Only when Hamlet masters his own insistent need to know and probes the implications of
ignorance can he move successfully to revenge (206). The unexamined irony of Hamlets progress toward revenge is that it foregrounds and sets in tragic opposition contradictory aspects of
his character: successful thought maturation, with respect to deepening awareness of ignorance, versus enraged reaction to his own censorious judgement (208). But Hamlet ultimately
achieves epistemological self-control through acceptance of the limits of knowledge, an attitude echoed in his last four lines: the rest is silence (5.2.363)" (209).HamletHamletself-knowledge
 Levy, Eric. "Would it were not so: Hypothetical Alternatives in . 11 (Nov. 2001): 33-46. Hamletliterature and Aesthetics HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL While drawing on Descartes philosophy
and Whiteheads knowledge of objectivist and subjectivist constructions of reality (33), this article investigates the invocation, in Hamlet, of hypothetical alternatives to circumstances
(IL.i.157) as they actually unfolded or currently obtain (33-34). "Hamlet himself is intimately associated with hypothetical alternatives, as indicated by his wishes to deny reality (e.g., his
fathers death, his own birth) and to die (35). By persistently "brooding on hypothetical alternatives, Hamlet defers achievement of the readiness (\V.ii.218) to confront circumstance as they
areto progress definitively, that is, from the subjunctive to the indicative mood (35). He gradually reduces his reliance on hypothetical alternatives, using various methods: Hamlet verifies
ideas through observation and inference in the play scene (36), acknowledges the possibility of purgation or regeneration in the closet scene (36-37), and meditates on death (the epitome of
that which cannot be avoided") in the graveyard (37). But the occasion of death involves profound ambiguity (37): while acceptance of mortality allows Hamlet to overcome recourse to
hypothetical alternatives and to achieve readiness to accept inevitability, the occasion of death triggers unbearable yearning for what might have been and uncertainty regarding what might
be" (37-38). For example, Hamlet declares, Let be (\.ii.220), prior to the duel yet suffers a hypothetical-alternatives relapse when he is dying (37)lamenting, Had I but time (Vii.341). The
play similarly presents the complexity of hypothetical alternatives: although recourse to them appears in the play as a human failing or innate fault (I.v.36)" (40), "the plot of is driven by
characters actively striving to implement hypothetical alternatives, as demonstrated by Hamlet's and Fortinbras efforts to reverse the wrongs suffered by their fathers (41). Ultimately,
Hamlet quells his penchant for hypothetical alternatives, and heroically participates in the unfolding of history designed by Providence (42-43). But, in , the individual to his or her own
destinysuggesting yet another of the play's conundrums (44).cogito ergo sumHamletHamletcontributes Matheson, Mark." and A matter tender and dangerous. 46 (Winter 1995): 383-97.
HamletShakespeare Quarterly HAMLET / NEW HISTORICISM / PHILOSOPHICAL / THEOLOGICAL This essay asserts that a consideration of Stoicism within a religious context illuminates
Hamlet's involvement with comprehensive ideological systems and helps to prepare the way for an analysis of his subjective transformation at the end of the play (383). Hamlet's
awkwardness in the filial role is symptomatic of his ambivalent relationship to the ideological order represented by his father, a culture whose values he consciously embraces but whose
established cultural roles he is unable to perform (e.g., revenger, obedient son, devout Catholic) (385). Unfortunately, Stoicism does not appear as a viable ideological alternative for Hamlet
(387). Its discourse proves useless to him as a way of ordering his mind or of assisting him in carrying out the will of his father (388). The contradictions between Hamlet's advice to the
players and his behavior during confirm that in the world of the play the ideologies of Stoicism and humanism are failing (389). Caught in the throes of an ideological unhousing from both
the residual and dominant cultural systems of Danish society, Hamlet cannot find a secure identity or an ideological basis for action in either the feudal Catholic world nor the humanist
Renaissance court (389). Through an examination of early modem ideology, this essay argues that the impasse in which Hamlet finds himself is broken in the final act by the emergence of a
specifically Protestant discourse of conscience and of God's predestinating will (390). Evidence suggests that "the history of Protestantism functions as a kind of subtext in (391). For
example, Hamlet's discussion on a special providence in the fall of a sparrow (5.2.165-68) seems a moment in the play when the radical Protestant subtext surfaces quite clearly (394).
That predestination and its worldly consequences were tender political matters may be an important reason for Shakespeare's rather oblique and suggestive handling of Hamlet's
transformation (397).The MousetrapHamlet_ Mousley, Andrew. "Hamlet and the Politics of Individualism. Hamlet. Ed. Mark Thornton Burnett and John Manning. Collection 1. New York: AMS,
1994, 67-82. New Essays onHamlet HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL This article proposes that there is no singular form of individualism to be extracted from the play, as different answers to the
question of what it means or might mean to be an individual are presented (75). Hamlet's struggle in the revenger role exemplifies the complexity of individualism: his character and actions
can be understood in different ways because the political and social orientation of his individualism is open-ended, extended beyond a traditional heroism but not yet determined by an
essentializing liberal humanism (79). While the concept of the self as free-floating paradoxically deprives the individual of any meaningful social and political agency, agency in is defined in
terms of the range of possible responses to a concrete social and political situation which thereby constitutes but which does not wholly determine the self (80). For the Elizabethan and
Jacobean audience, witnessing a princely agency within the orbit of other less exalted individuals/audience members encourages a complex sense of their own differentiated potentialities as,
social and political actors (80).Hamlet Usher, Peter. Advances in the Cosmic Allegory. 4 (Fall 2001): 25-49. HamletOxfordian HISTORY OF IDEAS / PHILOSOPHICAL By asserting that
contains a cosmic allegory, this article suggests that Shakespeare was well aware of the astronomical revolutions of his time, and by dramatizing the triumph of heliocentricism and the infinite
universe as a subtext of his great play, he celebrated what is in essence the basis for the modern world view (27). The play appears imbued with allusions to the astronomical debate based on
linguistic references to the contemporary scientific terms (e.g., [1.2.114], [2.2.259]) and character names borrowed from actual scientists (e.g., Claudius Ptolemy, Marcellus Palingenius
Stellatus). Even the plot seems charged, as Shakespeare departs from in the final scene to recognize that the English cosmological contribution is an outgrowth of the Polish contribution:
Fortinbras goes first to Poland, to pay homage to the grave of Copernicus, and then upon his return to salute the English ambassadors. Thus the two models favored by Shakespeare, the Polish
and the English, are triumphant following the demise of geocentricism, which Claudius and his followers represent (33-34). Aside from discerning meaning in the opaque dialogue between
Hamlet, Horatio, and Osric in act five, scene two (42), this cosmological interpretation of also uncovers the scientific basis for Hamlet's nutshell (2.2.258). Hamletretrogradeinfinite
spaceHistoria DanicaHamlet Wagner, Valeria. The Unbearable Lightness of Acts.. Ed. Andrew Hadfield, Dominic Rainsford, Tim Woods. New York: St. Martins, 1999, 73-85. The Ethics in
Literature HAMLET / PHILOSOPHICAL Relying heavily on Baktins philosophy of action, this essay asserts that the lightness whereby acts appear as too abstract to be enacted is intimately
related to that whereby acts appear too easily enacted with respect to their ethical import (75). In , the Prince initially hesitates in his act of revenge because he strongly believes in a
continuity between motive and act (76). As his reaction to the players Hecuba speech demonstrates, Hamlet believes that his cause give effect to action, were he only impregnated with
it-were he bearing it properly (76). But his understanding of cause/action alters when he encounters Fortinbras army. In going to war a cause, Fortinbras "demonstrates that reasons are
neither compellent nor determinant, suggesting, moreover, that actions are fundamentally ungrounded in anything other than themselves (77). Hamlet's focus shifts imperceptibly from the
question of how (or whether) to accomplish , to that of how to accomplish anythinghow to act? (80). Although Hamlet concludes his contemplation of Fortinbras and Fortinbras war with the
declaration of his own bloody thoughts, he does not follow Fortinbrass example because he perceives action as abstract/unqualified (80). Hamlet concludes that there is no possible unity
between content and enactment, motive and product, and hence that there is no relationship between the ethical import of an act and its actual enactment, but his continued inaction suggests
that a certain unity between the phenomenological and ethical dimensions is needed for action (81).Hamletwouldwithoutthis Weitz, Morris. ": Philosophy the Intruder. . Ed. Morris Weitz and
Margaret Collins. New Studies in Aesthetics 10. New York: Lang, 1995. 17-33. HamletShakespeare, Philosophy, and Literature: Essays PHILOSOPHICAL This monograph chapter argues against
the reduction of the play to some one philosophical theme that is abstracted from either the character of Hamlet, the soliloquies, the dialogue, the plot, the imagery, or the general atmosphere
of the play and is then proclaimed the meaning of the play (17). A sampling of 's soliloquies and dialogue suggests the diverse philosophical material throughout the play and how easily critics,
can find/construe proof for generalizations. A review of critics who have fallen into such traps (e.g., Campbell, Spurgeon, Clemen, Fergusson, Stoll, Coleridge, Bradley) provides examples of
errors. But the essay recommends attention to tone, as this aspect implies a kind of irreducible complexity of human experience: "sheer love of life, woe, wonder, mystery, etc. (32). Itis in
this aspect of the tonethe irreducible complexity of human experience as it mirrors mans conditionthat I find the philosophy of " (33).HamletHamlet Wright, Eugene P. (I: From Physics to
Metaphysics.0] Hamlet 4 (1992): 19-31. HamletStudies HAMLET / METAPHYSICS / PHILOSOPHICAL This article analyzes Hamlets struggle with Cithe spiritual mystery of the nature of the
cosmos, the nature of mankind, and mankindCis relationship with the cosmos(] (20). Hamlet initially views the cosmos as a chaotic garden, but he discovers evidence of moral order in the
grave yard (23). The unearthed skulls provide tangible evidence, showing Oclearly that emphasis upon