The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network The Cancer Institute at Alexian
Brothers Hospital Network The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers is a healthcare system approach to oncology services at St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian Brothers Medical Center.
The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is an Oncology Clinical Institute that is inspired by the values that shape the Alexian Brothers philosophy of care and a desire to
provide cutting-edge, innovative treatment. Our mission is to offer services to meet the needs of cancer patients and their families at Alexian Brothers Medical Center and St. Alexius Medical
Center. We are a comprehensive treatment care center utilizing cutting-edge technologies including 64-slice Computed Tomography (CT) Scan, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) CAT Scan
and Breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) as diagnostic tools. We also have the ability to deliver radiation through the following techniques: High Dose Rate Brachytherapy (HDR),
Mammosite and Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). For additional information visit. www.alexian-cancer.org Find information on offered through The Cancer Institute at Alexian
Brothers Hospital Network clinical trials Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow Is it really all about the hair? I am a breast cancer survivor and I often tell others about my experience. One of the first
questions I usually get is, did you loose your hair? One of the things The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network can do to help minimize the trauma of loosing your hair during
treatment is to offer a solution... read more about "Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow." The Patient and Family Alliance in Action! The Patient and Family Alliance (PFA) in partnership with Alexian
Brothers Hospital Network is making great strides towards making our oncology programs the best in the Northwest. Learn more about PFA Online Support Community Join our online

forums through . This forum is a great way to connect with others who are going through a similar experience. It works much like a chat room where you can interact with others. We monitor
this room and only those who are approved gain access. Come chat with us today! http://forum.alexian-cancer.org Alexian Brothers Health System Introduces Lung Scans She began smoking
when she was 14 years old. Now 39, she was thinking about quitting - and was concerned about how much she might have hurt her lungs by smoking for the last 25 years. Her doctor referred
her to Alexian Brothers Hospital Network's new Alexian Lung Scan program... More