Graduated Licensing Systems Licensing a new driver comes with a great risk. New drivers have elevated crash levels compared to other drivers on the road. Drivers younger than eighteen are
three times as likely to be involved in a traffic accident as compared...Continue reading "" Graduated Licensing Systems Enforcing Cell Phone Bans on Teen Drivers Recent laws have been
passed to prevent teen drivers from using their cell phones while driving. A recent study showed that most teens are ignoring the laws passed on the use of cell phones while driving. A study
done by...Continue reading "" Enforcing Cell Phone Bans on Teen Drivers Educating Teen Drivers on the Risk of Cell Phone Use Teens and parents have stated that there are certainly gaps in
the driver's education program. One of the largest gaps tends to be establishing safe driving habits. The current messages about cell phone use and alcohol use as a teen...Continue reading ""
Educating Teen Drivers on the Risk of Cell Phone Use Cell Phone Restrictions for Teenage Drivers You have probably seen it before, a car pulls up next to you and someone is chatting away on
their cell phone. While some people are able to maintain focus on the road ahead while driving and talking, others aren't...Continue reading "" Cell Phone Restrictions for Teenage Drivers
Teaching Your Child Proper Phone Use Knowing how to properly use the phone is a skill children should develop from an early age. Not only is it important to know how to be polite while on the
phone and how to properly take a message and...Continue reading" Teaching Your Child Proper Phone Use Consider This: Cell Phone Privacy and Security Because of how fast our technology
is advancing we are faced with new problems when it comes to cell phones. There are certain things that we as cell phone users are going to need to worry about and watch out...Continue
reading " Consider This: Cell Phone Privacy and Security Need To Know: Cell Phone Safety and Privacy At a time when cell phones are as much of a necessity for some as their car keys and
wallets, it is important to be aware of what kinds of dangers are present when you choose to use a cell...Continue reading "" Need To Know: Cell Phone Safety and Privacy A Safer, More Private
Cell Phone All of us would probably agree that cell phones are a great use of technology because of all of the things that they allow us to do, and the best thing is that the more our technology
advances the more...Continue reading "" A Safer, More Private Cell Phone Tips for Cell Phone Safety and Privacy Cell phones are a necessity of life for some individuals. Many people have their
cell phones on their person at all times of the day. It would not be a stretch to say that the cell phone has become an...Continue reading "Tips for Cell Phone Safety and Privacy Protecting
Your Cell Phone's Contact List Introduction When we type in the name and number of a friend or as we loan our phone to someone to make a call, the last think that we are thinking is that
these actions could be putting those on...Continue reading "" Protecting Your Cell Phone's Contact List Keeping Your Cell Phone Safe and Private Introduction Most of us have cell phones that
we use on a daily basis. While for some a cell phone is simply a convenient thing to have in the case of an emergency, for others cell phones and personal electronic...Continue reading ""
Keeping Your Cell Phone Safe and Private Best Technology for Cell Phone Safety and Privacy More and more people are beginning to buy cell phones that serve more than one purpose.
Basically what these cell phones are doing is acting as a phone and as a mini computer. Many times businesses will provide their employees...Continue reading "" Best Technology for Cell Phone
Safety and Privacy Best Networks For Cell Phone Safety and Privacy When it comes to choosing the best networks for safety and security, narrowing the options down to just one or two
network service providers is more difficult than you may think. All cellular phone networks are guided by legislation that...Continue reading "" Best Networks For Cell Phone Safety and Privacy
Children and Telephone Manners As a parent, one of the most important jobs that you have is to teach your child skills that they will use later on in life. One of the most important skills that
you can teach your child is how...Continue reading "" Children and Telephone Manners How To Teach Your Child Proper Phone Etiquette One of the best ways to teach your child how to use the
phone with proper etiquette is to practice using the phone with them. Children of various ages love to play pretend, and they also love to role play,...Continue reading "" How To Teach Your
Child Proper Phone Etiquette At What Age Should You Get Your Child a Cell Phone? With the lowering cost of cellular phones, as well as the different plans that assorted carriers have to offer,
many families decide to buy their children cell phones. Kids as young as eight years old are begging to own their...Continue reading" At What Age Should You Get Your Child a Cell Phone?
Controlling Your Child's Cell Phone Use Kids want to express their independence at an early age, more so now than in the past. Even though parent-kid communication has increased
tremendously with the affordability of owning a cell phone, as well as the ability to sign up...Continue reading " Controlling Your Child's Cell Phone Use Cell Phone Readiness for Your Child The
purchases of cellular phones for preteens and even younger children by parents are rising significantly these past years. Children want to have a cellular phone for their birthday, for Christmas,
or just because their friends have one. If you...Continue reading "" Cell Phone Readiness for Your Child Which Cell Phone Plans Are Best for Families with Kids? More and more families are
buying cellular phones and are looking for the best wireless service plan. With the use of the cellular phone, you can keep in touch with your kids, your family, your friends, and work even
when...Continue reading" Which Cell Phone Plans Are Best for Families with Kids? Different Cell Phone Plans for Different Families The type of cell phone and plan kids of different ages should
have really depends on what the family decides. Parents give their kids a cellular phone because they requested it, and it gives them peace of mind knowing their...Continue reading " Different
Cell Phone Plans for Different Families |  Kids and Cameras Surf Net Parents Free Newsletter Get educational "Surfing the Net with Kids" website recommendations in your mailbox every
week, from Surfnetkids.com syndicated columnist Barbara J. Feldman: Subscribe to Surf Net Parents RSS Feed Contact Us Have questions or comments? We want to hear from you. Contact
Barbara Feldman and the crew via the . Reply to Barbara help desk About Surf Net Parents Surf Net Parents is part of the family of sites from syndicated columnist . The title, which now
sounds silly, grew from wanting to expand from "Surfing the Net with Kids" to "Surfing the Net with Parents." Surfnetkids.com Barbara J. Feldman Monthly Archives