About us and Our conditions is a company focusing on providing quality and affordable Multi Media solutions to our clients all over the world.SatLiveOnPC.comMembers are supplied with
software and links to thousands streaming intemet Tv from around the world. All video streams are copyright of their respective stations. You do not require any extra hardware. Broadband
provides the best and high quality uninterrupted service but IT IS NOT NECESARRY you can also use other internet connections. Our customer service team is available 24/7 and always looking
forward to assisting you with questions or inquiries you might have regarding our service. Our company mission is customer satisfaction. We simply strive to provide an outstanding level of
customer service and support while continuously expanding our web presence nationally and internationally. Our Conditions: By purchasing the Satliveonpc.com package you agree to the
following terms and conditions of sale. As a member of Satliveonpc.com you agree that you will not pass , download or sell any information from our members area to anyone else.

Satliveonpc will keep any user information confidential and not pass this information to any third party. If Satliveonpc find more than one connection to our system at the same time using the
same username and password you will automatically be banned from the system and your subscription fee will not be returned. If you feel that your information has been taken from you
without your permission you must inform us using the contact form on our web site. In subscribing to Satliveonpc you are stating that you are over the age of 18 and are legally entitled to
watch the contents of the sites you visit You agree that you understand that Satliveonpc.com does not provide the streams directly but provides you with the links to the correct sites and
software required. Satliveonpc.com does not guarantee that all sites provided are fully operational 24 hours a day and sites can be removed or added at any time. If you have a problem you
contact us and give us up to 48 hours to answer your emails. You must provide us with the correct contact information or we are not responsible for you not receiving your information. If a
subscription is misused in any way we reserve the right to remove you from our database. Your subscription payment is for 1 year and is renewable. If you cancel a subscription you will be
deleted from the database.