MeDICi allows scientists and analysts to visually create and modify a pipeline for processing data.Simple. MeDICi is built on proven standards-based integration, workflow, and provenance
technologies.Robust. MeDICi supports multiple languages, communication protocols, hardware platforms.Flexible. MeDICi improves performance by passing large data by reference. Efficient.
Research Area: Software Architecture Technological advances continue to increase the volume, rate and complexity of data produced from modeling and simulation, high-throughput
instruments, and system sensors. As a result, scientists and analysts are challenged with capturing and integrating high-throughput sensor data fusing and analyzing data in real time
managing diverse data formats and locations integrating heterogeneous software and hardware systems. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is aggressively working to solve the
big-data challenge through research and development of data intensive computing technologies. A foundational piece is the Middleware for Data-Intensive Computing (MeDICi) project: an
evolving middleware platform for building complex, high-performance analytical applications. These applications typically comprise a pipeline of software components-each of which performs
some analysis on incoming data and passes on its results to the next step in the pipeline. MeDICi comprises three major subcomponents that are loosely coupled: adaptive workflow for
application coordination - SIFT for scalable component integration - and data virtualization for capturing provenance and managing logical files. Approach The workflow and model execution
environment built on MeDICi enables applications to be wrapped as MeDICi components, which can simply be included in any number of workflows defined by scientists. The MeDICi technology
is being designed to specifically address two difficult aspects of building analytical applications, namely: The software components in an analysis pipeline have usually been created by different
programmers using various programming languages, and each may have particular hardware platform dependencies. MeDICi provides features that make creating pipelines from
heterogeneous, distributed components simple.Pipeline creation. Passing large data sets between pipeline components can kill application performance. MeDICi provides features that give
pipeline designers choices on how to pass data in pipelines to maximize application performance.Handling large data. Impact MeDICi makes it faster and less expensive to build scientific
workflows in many science domains by providing a more scalable, flexible workflow environment that promotes ease of use for scientists and that can be easily modified and scaled to meet
future research needs. MeDICi is already in use for a range of applications at PNNL, including biological workflows, groundwater simulations, video processing, and satellite data processing,