VMSC Contacts Visiting Medical Student Clerkship Program Mayo's mission is to provide the highest-quality compassionate patient care through a physician-led team of people working
together in clinical practice, education and research in a unified multi-campus system. The Visiting Medical Student Clerkship Program offers students a broad array of elective clinical rotations
that foster growth of medical knowledge through direct patient-care experiences. The Visiting Medical Student Clerkship Program provides elective clinical rotations for nearly 400 participating
medical students each year. The hands-on experiences and rewards that visiting students receive are many and diverse. As a visiting medical student at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine you'll
have the opportunity to become an active member of a medical team. As a team member, you'll attend teaching rounds and conferences, take patient histories, perform physical examinations,
assist in the operating room and with other procedures. For clinical services, you'll be assigned to a resident who will provide instruction and supervise your patient-care duties. On average, you
will interact with Mayo faculty three to four hours every day. As 2 member of Mayo Clinic health care team, you will: patients from around the world with a wide spectrum of common and rare
diseasessee with outstanding physicians representing all medical and surgical specialties and eminent scientists in basic researchwork clinical decision-making skills at the largest medical
group practice in the worldlearn in the educational activities at one of the largest residency training institutions in the nation, with more than 15,000 alumni practicing throughout the
worldparticipate why Mayo Clinic is an international leader in academic and clinical medicineexperience your abilities to Mayo Clinic facultydemonstrate and with residency program
directorsmeetinteract "My clerkship experience sealed Mayo Clinic as my top choice for residency. In addition to their dedication to patients, I found that Mayo doctors are dedicated to
teaching." Sivakumar Chinnadurai, M.D ARIZ. FLA. MINN.Mayo Clinic offers Visiting Medical Student Clerkships at each of its campuses in , and . Minnesota Florida Arizona