What Should I NOT Wear to a Job Interview? Posted by HR | | Preparing for a job interview When you are preparing for a job interview you need to remember that the way you dress can
make or break you. People need clothes, but more than the necessity, it can not be denied that those who know how to dress well, for either an ordinary day or a special occasion will create
impressions that are positive. For us to come up with the things you have to remind your self before facing your interviewer, let us identify those clothes, and even accessories that would not be
flattering at all. Wild colors are not hot. You could be the hottest person with those red top-to-toe get up. As much as possible wear something that is subtle in color but would make you looks
flattering but not too loud. Remember that you are there for an interview and not for a night out. It is you, not your bag. When you are out for a job interview, do not bring with you a heavily
printed bag, purses are better options and please choose a conservative color that could go along with your dress. Short skirt, short chance. Never wear an above the knee skirt. Your legs

may be the silkiest in town but being an interviewee does not require you to wear this type of skirt. You would look unprofessional. You are not a Christmas tree. Jewelry and accessories could
really be good add-ons for your looks. For interviews, job interviews, make sure that you do not wear too much. For example earrings, do not show off that you have more than one piercing per
ear by wearing more than one earring. Tie for him. For men, the safest to wear is a collared shirt but it would be also more professional to wear a long-sleeved top with tie. Never wear
turtle-neck for an interview. You may just end up sweaty and out of fashion. You do not have to be a power dresser or a head turner when you wear clothes for a job interview. You just have to
remember the basic reminders of looking professional and presentable. This article would definitely be a benefit for those who are preparing for a job interview, but do not have the idea of how

it is to be in a job interview. No Comments