Insulation Solutions comprehensive range of acoustic building insulation products and systems include products designed to control reverberation, sound transmission and absorption in building
interior, as well as in external walls, ceilings and plumbing. Designed specifically for acoustic control, these products also have excellent thermal control properties.Acoustic Building Insulation

~ T Insulation SolutionsT Noise Stop BoardT is ideal for the control of room to room sound transmission in offices,
classrooms, medical rooms, apartments or homes. It provides a barrier against unwanted sound. It is a heavy density glasswool panel that significantly reduces sound transmission when used
in timber or steel stud walls. Noise Stop Board T Insulation SolutionsT Noise Control BattsT deliver excellent acoustic
performance for commercial and domestic applications. They are ideal for installation in metal and timber stud wall systems, as well as ceiling overlays where a reduction in room to room
transmission is required. ~ -Noise Control Batts T Insulation SolutionsT PinkPoly Acoustic Insulation products have been
designed for use in commercial applications to absorb sound within rooms and reduce sound transmission between rooms. Easy to handle and install, Insulation Solutions PinkPoly insulation
achieves significant sound reduction levels when used as an infill in wall and ceiling systems, whilst providing the added benefits of effective thermal insulation

-PinkpolyAcoustic Batts and Blanket T Insulation SolutionsT QuietPipe is recommended for reducing noise generated by
rainwater, soil or waste pipes. QuietPipe is typically used to wrap PVC or metal pipes in residential or multi-residential buildings, as well as in commercial buildings such as Cinemas, Auditoriums
and Concert Halls. ~ -QuietPipe T The QuietZone Systems are complete noise management solutions designed for use in
residential and other buildings where high levels of sound insulation are requires. QuietZone combines the products of two of Australia's leading building materials manufacturers: Boral
Plasterboard and Insulation Solutions .QuietZoneSystem About Us Insulation Solutions Pty. Ltd (formerly ACI Insulation) is one of Australia's leading manufacturers and marketers of insulation
products. These products, produced from glasswool and reflective foil, are supplied to residential, commercial and industrial applications throughout Australia, New Zealand and Asia. Insulation
Solutions Pty. Ltd is part of the Amatek group of companies. Insulation Solutions Pty. Ltd has a number of manufacturing facilities which use the best available technology to produce insulation
products in the Asia-Pacific region. Insulation Solutions Pty. Ltd aims to contribute to the overall reduction in energy consumption of Australian and Asian households and businesses by
providing a wide range of insulation products. By reducing energy consumption, we also add to individual's comfort and reduce energy costs, thereby improving the profitability of businesses
and households. In addition to thermal benefits, our products also improve acoustic performance of structures, again aiding comfort levels