Analyst: Give the Rocky Mountain News 90 days, then its gone By 12/4/08 7:31 PM Ernest Luning The announcement Thursday that for the next 30 days starts a clock ticking that will almost
certainly lead to the , writes Alan D. Mutter, who blogs about the news business in Reflections of a Newsosaur. Denver's Rocky Mountain News is on the block 149-year-old newspaper shutting
down in 90 days Given the circumstances, Mutter wrote Thursday afternoon, the only logical buyer for the Rocky is the [Denver] Post, which is owned by MediaNews Group. The Post, which
is published along with the Rocky in a Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) between MediaNews Group and E.W. Scripps Co., is bleeding money as freely as the Rocky, so the only reason Media
News would buy the Rocky is to shut it down to save the costs of producing it. In buying the Rocky, MediaNews would have more to gain than any other buyer, because the purchase would
give it unrivaled control of the market. Thus, it could afford to pay $1 more than any other prospective buyer and still come out ahead. The two newspapers entered into the JOA with Justice
Department oversight in 2001 when the longstanding newspaper war threatened to take both newspapers down. It allows a single entity 0 the Denver Newspaper Agency D to run printing, ad
sales and circulation, while maintaining two independent newsrooms. JOAs were a dodge around anti-trust laws intended to foster competing news voices, but they were established in the days
before the Internet, which has been leaching readership from big-city newspapers even before the economic downturn sapped ad revenue. The offer to sell the Rocky to all comers, which
expires at the end of the year, helps insulate Scripps and MediaNews from any accusations that the sale was improperly anticompetitive under the antitrust statutes. When the search comes up
empty, then Scripps likely will move forward with the sale to MediaNews. Scripps has unwound three JOAs and shut down its newspapers in recent years in Albuquerque, Birmingham, and
Cincinnati, If you know your ABCs, you know that D, as in Denver, unfortunately is next, Mutter tolls. Because federal law requires 60 days notice before shutting down a plant employing
more than 100 workers, Mutter points out, expect a shuttering of the Rocky about that many days after Scripps fails to find a buyer or the Post owner tenders a bid. Ironically, he notes, its
closing would come weeks before its 150th anniversary in April. Any other buyer intending to operate the Rocky would face huge financial obstacles beyond the tanking economy, which has
seen Cl a historically high 18 percent dive likely to accelerate at years end. Included with the Rocky would be $130 million in debt on a new printing plant, on top of an estimated $15 million
operating loss this year, plus the tangles of the JOA, which would limit any buyer other than the Post from realizing the full gains from any upturn. newspaper ad revenue tumble by $2 billion in
the third quarter As the sole publisher in a one-newspaper town, the Post could immediately save printing and distribution costs on 210,000 daily copies of the Rocky, in addition to shutting
down the competing newsroom. We are committed to Denver, MediaNews owner and Post publisher on Thursday, saying he plans to wait and see what happens. Dean Singleton told the
Rocky