Join us in January for our annual Installation of Officers Saturday, January 10th, 2009, 5:00 PM At the club house 4134 Judah Street, San Francisco Public Invited! Every January we shift
modes with the installation of our dub officers for the new year. Instead of the usual first Friday General Meeting, we celebrate with a catered spread of delicious Chinese food, cake for dessert,
and live and silent auctions of some great rock, gem and mineral materials. Join us - bend an ear, enjoy great food and maybe win a rock or two! (Dinner is free for members - guests are
charged a nominal fee). Notice Field Trip Planning Meeting Any members with field trip ideas or having an interest in planning the next years field trips are invited to attend the Field Trip
Planning Meeting at the clubhouse on . This is your opportunity to have some input into the selection oflocations and trip planning for 2009!Friday Jan 16 at 7:30 PM Notice Free Public
Lectures The USGS conducts a series of free lectures at their Menlo Park Campus at the USGS Menlo Park Science Center, Building 3, 2nd. floor Conference Room A. Their December 18th
offering, "Gemstone Deposits of the United States," presented by USGS Gemstone Specialist Pete Modreski was nothing short of excellent. Local Bay area mineral collector and Benitoite nut
Rick Kennedy brought along a spectacular collection of very rare faceted stones for dessert. Next month's program promises to be equally fascinating: Thursday, January 29, 2009, 7:00 p.m.
USGS, Menlo Park, California Exploring Mars Geology, Climate Change and Prospects for Past Life Data from a recent polar lander, two still active rovers and three spacecraft in orbit are
changing our perceptions about how Mars evolved. What do these new data imply for the prospects of past and present life? for more information about past and future lectures or to download
a flyer.Public Info: Visit the USGS Evening Public Lecture website A video archive of the current season's lectures, including Pete Modreski's "Gemstone Deposits of the United States," is
available on the USGS's website here: (Page opens in a separate window. Video's require Adobe Flash Player 8.0 or later). Other recent lectures of particular interest for which videos are
available include: "The Hayward Fault in Google Earth." "San Francisco Bay Wetland Revival," "Ready for the Next Big Bay Area Earthquake?"Video Series: Current Season - 2008 Video Archive
@ Looking Back at... The Jade Clock There are plenty of "jade clocks" to be found (just do a simple search on Google), virtually all made the conventional way - quartz or mechanical
movements made with metallic parts - housed in or decorated with jade. To our knowledge, however, there is no other jade clock in existence than the masterpiece conceived and created by
members of the San Francisco Gem & Mineral Society 50 years ago. Its fitting to reminisce about this exceptional legacy as the theme for our annual show in August, 2009 will be "," a stone
that continues to hold a high level of fascination for a large number of club members, for its incredible toughness, durability, mystique and natural beauty.trulyJade Our jade clock is a full sized
grandfather clock with a 16-jewel jade movement and jade strike train. Every piece of the clock was carefully designed, mocked-up in wood and tested for fit before being cut, carved and
Polished in the actual jade. The clock's 16 jewels were crafted from Chatham emeralds. The clock is housed in a case made of American black walnut and clear Plexiglas to allow complete
visibility of the movement and strike train, and topped with spherical jade finials. Countless thousands of hours and hundreds of pounds of valuable jade, much of it from rare California
localities, were donated to the project in an unprecedented team effort over a five year period of time. The clock was first displayed at the California Federation of Mineralogical Societies show
held in San Mateo in 1959, sans strike train which was subsequently completed in time for the SFGMS show of 1962. The entire project was documented in a series of articles by dub members
Helen Stiles Chenoweth and Ted Bhend in the Lapidary Journal, which were then woven into a 12-page brochure appropriately titled "The Jade Clock." It fully documents the entire process and
credits the dedicated dub members behind this remarkable achievement. A PDF file of the brochure can be downloaded by (This is 2 3.3 MB file, it may take a few moments to display). clicking
here. Though uncertain at this time, there is some hopeful discussion underway about the possibility of dusting off the heavy jade clock and (very carefully) moving it into the Hall of Flowers
for the 2009 show, to be featured with our other jade spectaculars - the jade table and the jade train, which includes a town and station... all made of jade! Postscript: Not too long after
posting the above information about the Jade Clock we received an email from Mary Jacoby, the Great Granddaughter of one of the principal designer/builders of the clock, Henry Reinecke.
Mary spoke of Henry's great stories and his well earned pride in the Jade Clock. She still has, and generously offered to send us a copy of a wonderful article by Judy Vaughn from the San
Francisco Sunday Chronicle, Bonanza Section, dated October 11, 1964. You can download a PDF file of this article by . (This is a 3.5 MB file, it may take a few moments to display). We are
grateful to Mary for her contribution and share her fond memory of her Great Grandfather! clicking here 2008 Show, The Golden Gateway To Gems - Photo's Click here for exhibitor case
photo's from the 2008 show Robin Crabill's Book Reviews... Club member Robin Crabill writes excellent reviews of books and other material of interest to the Society, which are published in
the dub newsletter, ,. These are now available on the website to the gem, mineral and lapidary world at large.The Mineralog click here to view. Mineral Gallery... A picture gallery of mineral
specimens from the club's collection has been added, Additional pictures will be added in the future. click here to view it. Notice to Members: For those interested in keeping track of the the
club's Board of Directors, the minutes from the monthly meetings are always posted on the bulletin board in the clubhouse for your perusal. Keep an eye on the bulletin board for other notices
and information that hasn't made it into the Mineralog or on to the web site. Website Updates To be a more valuable resource to everyone involved with the hobby of rocks, gems and
minerals, our website is being updated all the time. Check back often - you may sometimes see exposed framing, dust and rough plaster, but please bear with us - most of the content remains
accessible even as changes are made. Spot Prices - Precious Metals The current NY Spot price, direction, and last tic are indicated at the top of each chart. Charts are updated each minute
while the market is open - just refresh your browser to get the latest quote. The San Francisco Gem & Mineral Society, Inc. 4134 Judah Street San Francisco, CA 94122 415-564-4230
Guests and visitors are welcome at all meetings which are usually held on the first Friday of each month, 8 pm at the clubhouse.