We have several articles on butterfly and moth biology in our article index, including their life cycle, . We also have a great life cycle poster in . HERE The Nature Store will the migrating
monarchs get to my neighborhood? When We have several articles on monarch migration, which you can find in our . The best place to find out where monarchs are RIGHT NOW is . You can
see up-to-date maps of both northbound and southbound migrations, and you can also enter your own sightings. Article Index Journey North do you say "butterfly" in... How Click to see a
list of the words for "butterfly" in many languages. If you know of any others, please let us know. HERE do butterflies breathe? Smell? How Adult butterflies, as well as caterpillars, breathe
through a series of tiny openings along the sides of their bodies, called "spiracles." From each spiradle, a tube called a "trachea" carries oxygen into the body. Butterflies don't have noses and
lungs as we do. Butterflies "smell" with their antennae. kinds of butterflies and moths live in my neighborhood? What We've put together a to help you find butterflies in any locality. In the
USA, we have butterflies and moths listed by state. In the United Kingdom, by postal code. We also have lists sorted by continent, country, and some localities. world atlas can I learn about
butterfly farming? How The Butterfly WebSite has many articles on butterfly and moth farming . We also have a number of books and startup kits in. HERE The Nature Store TM by Rick Mikula
and The Butterfly WebSiteSpread Your Wings and Fly Seminar Notes TM by Linda Rogers and Nigel VentersThe Commercial Butterfly Breeders Manual Raising Kits, Supplies, Books Spread Your
Wings and Fly Seminar, by Rick Mikula Our 2003 schedule will be announced at a later date. Click for info about our recent seminars. HERE Advanced Guide to Commercial Butterfly
Production, by Nigel Venters Niagara Falls, Ontario, Oct 31, 2002 (click for info). HERE There are two list servers operated by The Butterfly WebSite. To learn more about these mailing lists,
click . HERE When you are ready for a website, or ready to accept orders for live butterflies, be sure to look to learn about sponsorships on The Butterfly WebSite. Our advertising rates, as well
as our rates to design and host websites, are very low. HERE Is it expensive to get started? Extensive capital investments are not required. Attend a seminar and/or buy the books; join the
free mailing lists; purchase some larvae and learn from experience. Our website, as well as our seminar, emphasize the use of recycled materials to build much of what you need. Do I need a
lot of space? No. You don't need a greenhouse or a butterfly house. Larvae can be kept in plastic cups, adults in a hanging cage. You'll need a source of larval plants, which you might gather
locally, or you might need to plant for yourself. What kinds of butterfly are normally raised? Monarchs and painted ladies. A majority of requests are for monarchs. Who can do this? Anyone
with the time to attend to these critters. It is necessary to tend them daily. Unlike other kinds of farming, you use a Q-tip instead of a shovel. It's excellent work for families, or for the elderly.
Watching your butterfly crop can be as relaxing as watching an aquarium. Who is doing this now? The primary place where butterfly farmers advertise their services is on The Butterfly
Website. Click to see our sponsor list, and click on Butterfly Releases. HERE What are the biggest drawbacks? 1: The length of the selling season - temperature must be in the mid-60's or
higher for a successful outdoor release. Many farmers augment this by other butterfly-related ventures, such as education in schools, or supplying butterflies in hanging cages to be displayed,
but not released, at events. 2: A supply of larval host plants. Milkweed for monarchs can often be obtained from the wild or from friendly farmers, but it is necessary to check for bug sprays or
infestations. 3: Governmental regulation. While we strongly endorse the many governmental regulations which seek to protect butterflies and agricultural products, wading through this
morass, without the assistance of experienced people to guide you, can be a problem. Fortunately, the exists to help with this and other problems. These must be considered primarly in
inter-state shipment of butterflies. International Butterfly Breeders Association 4: Shipping. Unless you are dealing exclusively in your local area (which is certainly feasible in any of the
'wedding capitals'), you must master the art of packaging and shipping live insects, with an eye to long shipment delays, excessive temperatures, and recipients not available to receive their
butterflies. Can I make a good living doing this? As with every other business, it depends on the level of effort you're willing to put into it. Many people are doing it on a part-time business for
extra income. Some have made it into a full-time business, but there is a seasonality to the business, so the answer depends heavily on where you reside. Since we cannot answer this question
fully, we suggest you go the the mailing list described above and ask this question of the people on the list. Also, we suggest you visit the since this is the main gathering place for people in the
business. IBBA website Where can I learn more about USDA regulations? are they called "butterflies"? Why Click for an article by Rick Mikula, HERE is my state insect? What 'd like to start a
butterfly garden. Can you help? I We certainly can. We have over 60 articles . HERE hat do Wooly Bear caterpillars become? W The wooly bear caterpillar eventually becomes an Isabella Tiger
Moth, Pyrrharctia Isabella _o butterfly hibernation boxes (butterfly houses) work? D If you intend them as an attractive garden decoration, they work superbly. If you'd like to provide shelter to
butterflies, these two articles say they most likely will not use them. However, several of our visitors have been successful. If you'd like to build one, go here: For info on where to put it in your
garden, go here: