nbsp; EricWard.com URLwire for Tuesday, August 19, 2003 - Online news headline linking services are welcome to link to this story ESPN Founder Launches Web Site for Network's 25th
Birthday . ESPN founder has launched , a 24 hour site dedicated to "all those sports junkies who revel in anything and everything that has to do with competition. "Bill Rasmussen
CertifiedSportsJunkie.com . URLwire archives since 1994 Search Twenty-five years ago this week the concept of 24-hour TV sports network was conceived by Rasmussen and son Scott.
ESPN went on to become the "world leader of sports television." "We had no idea what we were starting" Rasmussen said. "But we were pretty sure that there were enough certified sports
junkies out there for a cable TV network. "The same junkies have been on my phone the last few months wanting to know if I could come speak to groups or if I have memorabilia for sale,
Rasmussen said. "The calls spawned another idea." "Why not a website for " with snippets from the year leading up to our first ESPN broadcast, memorabilia and Certified merchandise, a
road show on how the network was conceived, polls, contests and ways for corporate sponsors to get credit and exposure." Certified Sports Junkies Rasmussen's idea launches today as . The
site also features "The Making of ESPN," a week-by-week recounting how he got ESPN off the ground. The site offers visitors a way to become Certified Sports Junkies and to obtain
memorabilia and merchandise. certifiedsportsjunkie.com  Rasmussen pioneered innovations including SportsCenter, "March Madness," and NFL draft coverage. He also broke the advertising
barrier to cable television by signing Anheuser Busch to the largest cable TV advertising contract ever in 1979. Rasmussen was induded in "Forty for the Ages," 's 1994 list of sports figures who
significantly altered and elevated the world of sport in the second half of the 20th century.Sports Illustrated When email addresses are used in URLwire stories, I have replaced the "@" sign
with (--at--) to discourage spam bots. To send email, simply replace (--at--) with an @ sign in your To: line End URLwire Copy