For other uses of Tornado, see . Tornado (disambiguation) A near . A is a violent characterized by a . The word tornado comes from the or verb , meaning "to turn." The phenomenon
appears in storms all around the world, though they most commonly occur in a broad area of the and known as , but some other countries see the storms occur in even higher densities.
waterspout Florida tornado windstorm twisting, funnel-shaped cloud Spanish Portuguese tornar American Midwest South Tornado Alley 1 Tomado formation Tomadoes develop from severe
thunderstorms, usually spawned from s and s, though they sometimes happen as a result of a . They are believed to be produced when cool air overrides a layer of warm air, forcing the warm
air to rise rapidly, though tornadoes over water ( s) frequently are observed forming in the absence of convection or apparent strong surface temperature differences. Tornadoes are inextricably
associated with , and tornadoes (as well as s) exhibit enormous electromagnetic fields that are inexplicable by convection models. Many tornadoes appear at the tail end of s, coming from areas
on screens that show a characteristic "hook echo". squall line supercell thunderstorm hurricane waterspout lightning For alternate meanings, see Lightning (disambiguation). Lightning is a
powerful natural electrostatic discharge produced during a thunderstorm. Lightning's abrupt electric discharge is accompanied by the emission of light. The electricity passing through dust devil
Dust Devil Johnsonville, South Carolina A dust devil is a small rotating updraft, at times 1000 meters or more high, but usually smaller, by an order of magnitude, and tens of meters in
diameter. Dust devils are often observed in times of atmospheric turb mesocyclone Mesocyclones are convection vortices formed in powerful thunderstorms, which generate many dangerous
byproducts. They are most commonly observed in supercell thunderstorms, but they can drive the activity of lesser thunderstorms as well. A mesocyclone gen radar This article is about the
device. For the fictional character in M A SH see Corporal Walter (Radar) O'Reilly. antenna (approximately 40m (130ft) in diameter) rotates on a track to observe activities near the horizon.
Radar is an acronym for ra dio d etec The damage to human endeavours from a tornado is a result of the high wind velocity and wind-blown debris, as well as from electromagnetic effects,
which frequently cause "freak" occurrences like wood impaling metal or stone, dried grasses (straw) impaling wood or animals and other similar effects inexplicable by fluid dynamics alone -
there are some anecdotal accounts of fowl being entirely plucked of their feathers by tornadoes, which could be explained by effects. Tornado winds range from a slow 40 mi/h (65 km/h) at the
low end to a possible 300 mi/h (480 km/h) in the strongest storms. Tornado season in is generally March through August, although tornadoes can occur at any time of year. They tend to occur
in the afternoons and evenings: over 80 percent of all tornadoes strike between noon and midnight. static electricity Static electricity or electrostatics is a field of science and a class of
phenomena involving the imbalanced charge present on an object, typically referring to charge with voltage of sufficient magnitude to produce a spark. Generation The presence of cha North
America North America is the third largest continent in area and the fourth ranked in population. It is bounded on the north by the Arctic Ocean, on the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, on the
south by the Caribbean Sea, and on the west by the North Pacific Ocea Tornadoes can be nearly invisible, marked only by swirling debris at the base of the funnel, though some nocturnal
tornadoes have been observed glowing diffusely. Retired U.S. Army captain Roy S. Hall and his family and others who have been inside tornadoes have reported that the inside of tornadoes is,
very bright and flickering like a fluorescent light bulb. Verified observations by Hall and others suggest a cellular structure inside tornadoes. Some tornadoes are composed of several
mini-funnels. A tornado must by definition have both ground and cloud contact. [1] [2] The United States experiences by far the most tornadoes of any country, and has also suffered the most
intense ones. However, tornadoes do occur throughout the world; the most tornado-prone region of the world, as measured by number of tornadoes per unit area, is the , especially . United
Kingdom The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northem Ireland is a state in Western Europe, usually known simply as the United Kingdom the UK Britain or less accurately as Great Britain
The UK was formed by a series of Acts of Union which united the formerly England [3] In, an average of 80 tornadoes occur annually, killing 2, injuring 20 and causing tens of millions of in
The last killer tornado in Canada struck Pine Lake , in July of 2000, killing 11. Canada dollars damage Alberta On average, the United States experiences 100,000 thunderstorms each year,
resulting in over 1,000 tornadoes and approximately 50 deaths per year. The deadliest US tornado on record is the , that went across southeastem , southern Illinois, and southern Indiana,
killing 695 people. More than six tornadoes in one day is considered a tornado outbreak. The biggest tornado outbreak on recordith 148 tornadoes, including six F5 and 30 F4 tornadoesccurred
on, . It is dubbed . Another such significant storm system was which affected the United States Midwest on , . March 18 1925 Tri-State Tornado Missouri April 3 1974 The Super Outbreak The
Palm Sunday Tornado Outbreak April 11 1965 The intensity of tornadoes is given by the (also known simply as ). The intensity can be derived directly with high resolution wind speed data, or
ly derived from structural damage compared to engineering data. Also, note that intensity does refer in any way to the size, or width, of a tornado.Fujita-Pearson Tornado Scale Fujita scale
Doppler radar empirical not Trained weather s are often on alert to look for tornadoes and notify local weather agencies when severe weather is occurring or predicted to be imminent. In the
United States, spotters, often local , fulfill this role. Additionally, some individuals, known as , enjoy pursuing thunderstorms and tornadoes to explore their many visual and scientific aspects.
spotter skywarn sheriff's deputies storm chasers Read more  has claimed tornadoes are , and Peter Thomson of the United Kingdom has experimented with charged sheath vortices, which
self-organize in plasmas subjected to electric currents.. While tornadoes are frequently coincident with lightning, the hypothesis that electromagnetic phenomena (plasmoid phenomena) may
generally or wholly large-scale tornadoes is not widely accepted by others in the field. 2 Tornado characteristics No two tomadoes look exactly alike. Nor have any two tornadoes behaved
exactly the same. There are true incidents of tornadoes repeatedly hitting the same town several years in a row. But forecasting the exact position a tornado will strike at a certain time is
nearly impossible. Not every thunderstorm, supercell, squall line, or hurricane will produce a tornado. Luckily, it takes exactly the right combination of atmospheric variables (wind,
temperature, pressure, humidity, etc) to spawn even a weak tornado. On the other hand, roughly 1,000 tornadoes a year are reported in the contiguous US. Of all tornadoes formed in the US,
and tomadoes account for a large percentage of occurrences. On the other end of the scale, the massively destructive tornadoes account for less than 2% of all tornadoes in the US.FOF1FS
Even though no two tornadoes are exactly alike, they always have the same general characteristics that classify them as tornadoes. First, a tomiado is a microscale rotating area of wind. A
thunderstorm can rotate, but that does not mean it is a tornado. Secondly, the , , must be attached to a convective cloud base, and be in contact with the ground. Some of those are
thunderstorms embedded in squal lines, supercell thunderstorms, and also not to exclude the outer fringes of landfalling hurricanes. Third, a spinning vortex of air must have a wind speed
above a certain rate to be classified by the as a tornado. vortex rotating wind Fujita scale According to , the chances of being by a tornado are 12 million to 1 (12,000,000:1). One may revise
this yearly and/or regionally, but the probability may be factually stated to be low. Tornadoes do cause millions of dollars in damage, both economic and physical, displacement, and many
injuries every year. Environment Canada killed Attempts have been made by storm chasers to drop probes in the path of oncoming tomadoes in an effort to analyze the interior of the storms,
but only about five drops have been successful since around . 1990 Edward Lewis associated with plasma effects [4] induce 3 Tornado awareness and safety Each time torado season comes
around, schools and media outlets in tornado-prone areas spend time educating the public about the dangers and what can be done to improve the chances of surviving a storm. In the United
States, citizens are often advised to purchase s. They are relatively inexpensive devices costing as little as US$20 which will activate whenever the issues severe weather warnings. Warnings
are also carried on radio and television, and most communities have s that will activate when severe weather is believed to be approaching. NOAA Weather Radio National Weather Service civil
defense siren When tornado wamings are issued, members of the public are advised to get into sheltered areas. In most buildings, it is recommended to seek shelter in a central, windowless
room or corridor, below ground if possible. If a tornado does strike a building, it can cause debris to rain down on people inside, so it is advisable to crouch under strong beams, in doorways, or
under strong furniture. However, light structures such as s are in severe danger when tornadoes and strong winds appear. Residents of such structures are advised to evacuate them whenever
severe weather is imminent and seek shelter in sturdier buildings, whether they are designated shelters or the homes of nearby friends. s are also common places of refuge in some regions
mobile home Storm cellar Vehicles are extremely dangerous in a tornado. If the tornado is visible, far away, and the traffic is light, you may be able to drive out of its path by moving at right
angles to the tornado. Otherwise, park the vehicle as quickly and safely as possible -- out of the traffic lanes (t is safer to get the vehicle out of mud later if necessary than to cause a crash)
and seek shelter in a sturdy building or ditch. You should not, under any circumstances, stay in a vehicle if the vehicle is in or near the path of a tornado. Vehicles are easily tossed around by
the extreme winds created by a tomado. Some people take shelter underneath bridge overpasses during storms, but they are not considered a safe place to take shelter. The National Weather
Service office based in has created a presentation discussing the use of bridges as protection during that occurred on , in the region of where tomadoes passed over three different bridgest
least one person was killed in each instance. Bridges vary in construction, and many do not provide any significant protection from the wind and flying debris. Norman, Oklahoma the Oklahoma
Tornado Outbreak May 3 1999 Oklahoma City Some common myths about Tornadoes which people should not rely upon to protect them, are given in the article on of 1974, in which some of
the most dangerous tornadoes formed near rivers and crossed them, and crossed over steep hills, mountains and deep valleys. The Super Outbreak Further safety information is available via
the "External links" section below. 4 See also