Blanche Ames Ames Blanche Ames (1878-1969) was an artist, feminist, author and inventor. Leading citizens of Lowell, Massachusetts, her parents believed in the equality of women and
encouraged their daughters to pursue higher education. When Blanche entered Smith College in 1895, she was one of a small minority of American women of her generation who attended
college. As president of the Class of 1899, she gave the commencement address. She told her audience, which included President McKinley, "We are fortunate to live in an age thatmore than
any othermakes it possible for women to attain the best and truest development in life. One year after graduation, Blanche married Oakes Ames and moved to North Easton. Between 1901
and 1910, she and Oakes had four children. While raising her children and maintaining the familys winter and summer households, Blanche found time to create an extensive body of portrait
work, develop a color chart system, and collaborate with Oakes on his botanical publications. Suffrage cartoon by Blanche Ames, published in theBoston Transcript Although her family and her
art were her primary concerns, Blanche actively pursued a variety of other interests. A lifelong supporter of woman suffrage, Blanche produced a series of political cartoons that received
national attention. In 1916, she co-founded the Birth Control League of Massachusetts, an affiliate of Margaret Sangers national group. During World War II, having noticed that thread could
snarl and jam a sewing machine motor, Blanche used that same principle to design a device to ensnare low-flying aircraft. The machine was demonstrated on the lawn at Borderland for guests
from the Pentagon. Although accepted by the U.S. Army, it came too late for practical application in the war. Angered by a passage in John F. Kennedy's , criticizing her father as a
carpetbagger, Blanche set out to write a biography that would vindicate him and correct history. She was eighty years old when she began the project. The research took six years, and in
1964, was published.Profiles in CourageAdelbert Ames: Broken Oaths and Reconstruction in Mississippi