Judicial Branch It was important to the men who wrote the that they form a government that did not allow one person to have too much control. While under the rule of the British king they
learned that this could be a bad system. Yet government under the taught them that there was a need for a strong centralized government. With this in mind, the framers wrote the
Constitution to provide for , but equally powerful, branches of government: the (which writes the laws); the (which carries out the laws); and the (which reviews the way laws are applied). The
separation of powers allows for a system of checks and balances within the government. Each branch is given certain control over the other two, which balances the power and keeps the
potential for abuse of power in check. Check out the lyrics and listen to part of the song which describes our three branches of government. Constitution Articles of Confederation three
separate Legislative Branch Executive Branch Judicial Branch SchoolHouse Rock Legislative Branch specifies that there shall be two separate legislative bodies: a and a . Together they are
called the . The two bodies of Congress work together to write, debate, and pass bills, which are then passed on to the President for approval. Article I of the Constitution House of
Representatives Senate Congress There are and . Each of the 50 states elects 2 senators. The number of representatives is determined by each state's population. Each member represents an
area of the state, known as a congressional district. The number of representatives is based on the number of districts ina state. Therefore, states with larger populations have more
representation than states with smaller populations. (ex: California has and Utah has only .) 100 senators 435 representatives 52 representatives 3 representatives Explore to discover the
answers to the following questions about the Legislative Branch: Ben's Guide to U.S. Government Today, senators are elected by the citizens of the state they represent. Prior to 1913 who
selected senators? Besides passing laws, name 3 powers of the U.S. Congress. How many years is a representative's term? a senator's? Why do you think the term lengths differ? Which
chamber of Congress (House of Representatives or Senate) has the power to start laws that make people pay taxes? Who is known as the president of the Senate? Although has numerous
responsibilities and powers under the Constitution, its chief function is to make laws. The legislative process can be quite complicated. A proposed law, or bill, must pass through a series of
steps before it is voted upon on the House and Senate floors. At any one of these steps, a bill can be delayed, defeated, or amended (changed). Most bills that are introduced do not survive
this process and do not become law. For more information on how laws are made go to or to. SchoolHouse Rock also offers a musical explanation of . Congress Ben's Guide to U.S.
Government Thomas: The Legislature Process How a Bill Becomes a Law Suppose you had fifteen minutes to describe the ten most important features of the U.S. Congress - could you do it?
Don't worry, help is close by. The web site provides an easy to understand list of . In addition, is a great source on pending legislation. Be sure not to miss CongressLink's. _ CongressLink
What Every Student Should Know About Congress Thomas: U.S. Congress on the Internet lesson plans and student activities Utah State Legislature The is similar in structure to the Federal
Legislature. There are 29 local elected and 75 members in the . Do you know who your are? Use these interactive maps to locate your and. Utah State Legislature Senators House of
Representatives state legislators Utah Senator Utah House of Representative Executive Branch The executive branch of government makes sure that the laws of the United States are obeyed

, section 1, of the Constitution vests the the head of the . The United States has had 42 Presidents. How many can you name? How many presidents have we had in your life time? No women
have been elected to the Oval Office, yet women make up half the population of the U.S. Do you think that a woman will be elected president in the next decade? In the next twenty years?
Ever? Why do you think a woman has never been elected to the presidency? To learn more about U.S. Presidency, explore these resource: very comprehensive guide to the presidents of
the United States. The American Presidential Biographies The has a link to everything you will ever want to know about the U.S. presidents. Presidents of the United States Hotlist Could you
be president? Discover the . presidential requirements Check out this index of . Presidential Speeches George Washington . Find out who was. was not the first president President's Day is
the 3rd Monday of February. Here are two resources to help you learn more about President Washington and Lincoln. and . Presidents Day Hotlist #1 Presidents Day Hotlist #2 Now you
should be ready to complete these activities: Test your presidential knowledge by taking one of these online quizzes: or an . Presidents Quiz American Presidency Quiz If you are tired of
quizzes, try this . Presidents game Play You will be shown a portrait of a president with a clue. Who is That? How well do you really know our presidents? with their hobbies. Match the
presidents Don't miss this . Presidential word scramble Vice President The of the United States is second in command. This person must be ready to become president or acting president at a
moment's notice if the president dies, resigns, is removed from office, or becomes unable to perform the duties of office. Only nine of our nation's 45 vice president have had to do this:
,, and. Vice President John Tyler Millard Fillmore Andrew Johnson Chester A. Arthur Theodore Roosevelt Calvin Coolidge Harry S. Truman Lyndon 8. Johnson Gerald R. Ford The Constitution of
the United States defines only one official duty for the vice president. He is the . The president, however, can choose to delegate additional responsibilities to this person and since 1933, the
vice presidents have attended meetings of the president's . At this point, only five vice presidents have been successfully elected as president: , , , and . president of the U.S. Senate Cabinet
John Adams Thomas Jefferson Martin Van Buren Richard Nixon George Bush You may want to read the from Grolier Online and then take the . biographies of Vice Presidents Vice Presidents
Trivia Quiz First Lady The wife of a president is called the . Read about some of our most recent first ladies, ,, ,,, ,, and , and learn how they have influenced their husband's

administration. Many of these women were activists for issues of their times. Discover which first lady was a champion of women's rights, which started a "Just Say No to Drugs" campaign,
which supported mental health programs and which focused on adult literacy. First Lady Laura Bush Hillary Rodham Clinton Barbara Bush Nancy Reagan Rosalyn Carter Betty Ford Lady Bird
Johnson Jacqueline Kennedy The Executive branch is very large so the President gets help from the Vice President, department heads (Cabinet members), and heads of independent agencies.
 If you have questions for the President, Vice President, or First Lady send them an email message: Veterans Affairs Government Agencies There are several administrative divisions of the
government whose job it is to enforce and administer laws and regulations. Because provisions for these agencies were not outlined in the Constitution, they are considered independent
extensions of the U.S. government. Here is a list of some of the major agencies. (Here's the web site.) Social Security Administration Youthlink The is a bit different than the Federal Level.
Instead of having a president, states have Governors. Take a minute to read about . Other major offices include Lt. Governor, Attorney General, State Treasurer and State Auditor. Executive
Branch at the State level Utah's past governors Judicial Branch The role of the is to interpret the nation's laws. It consists of two separate levels of courts: and . The type of court that a case
is tried in depends on the law that was allegedly violated. Most of the laws that govern our day-to-day living are . Violations of include offenses involving federal government employees, crimes
committed across state lines (for example, kidnapping or evading arrest), and fraud involving the national government (such as income tax or postal fraud). judicial branch state courts federal
courts state laws federal law Utah Courts The Federal and the Utah State judicial systems include both trial courts and appellate courts. Trail Courts conduct the first hearing of a case, and
appellate courts review a trial court's decision at the request of the losing party. The Utah State Court System is comprised of two appellate courts - the and . Utah trial courts include the , ,
and . These courts are located in each of the state's eight judicial districts. If you don't know which district you live in, use the . These courts handle most criminal matters and most legal
business concerning marital disputes, probate of estates, land deals, commercial contracts, and other day-to-day matters. Supreme Court Court of Appeals District Court Juvenile Courts Justice
Courts Judicial Locator Map Federal Courts The federal courts, in contrast, have power to decide only those cases over which the gives them authority. These courts are located principally in
the larger cities. If the federal court system is viewed as a pyramid, at the top is the , the highest court. On the next level are the and the . Constitution Supreme Court of the United States
13 United States Courts of Appeals U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces Utah is in the along with the states of Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Wyoming, plus those
portions of the Yellowstone National Park extending into Montana and Idaho. On the following level are the 94 and the specialized courts, such as the , the , the , and the . The is located in Salt
Lake City. Tenth Circuit U.S. district courts Tax Court Court of Federal Claims Court of Veterans Appeals Court of Intemational Trade U.S. District Court for Utah Federal cases are usually begun
at the district court level. If a party is not satisfied with the decision, they may have the decision reviewed in one of the courts of appeals. If dissatisfied with the decision of a court of appeals,
the party may seek additional review in the Supreme Court of the United States; however, the Supreme Court primarily reviews only cases that involve a matter of great national importance
and only accepts a small number of cases each term. Read some of the current and past . Have some fun and take a of the Supreme Court Building. (Note: You need the QuickTime 4.1 plugin
installed.) Supreme Court Decisions Virtual Tour Jury Service The of the United States Constitution guarantees a speedy, fair trial before a jury of one's peers. A jury consists of 12 people who
are selected to hear the evidence in a trial. After the jurors hear the evidence presented during the trial, they must try to decide if the defendant is guilty or not guilty. Read Utah's and then
answer the following questions: Sixth Amendment Guide to Jury Service How are people selected to serve on a jury? How much are you paid for jury service? Why are some citizens excused
from jury duty? Can you describe the jury selection process? WhatCls the difference between a criminal and a civil case? You can get a good idea what is involved in a trial by exploring the
web site, Famous Trials Judges / Justices Courts are presided over by judicial officers. In the courts of appeals, district courts, and other courts, most of the judicial officers are called . Where
a jury is used, the jury decides questions of and the judge decides all questions of. When all the evidence has been heard, and the lawyers for both sides have addressed the jury, the judge
charges the jury, telling it what rules of law apply to the case. A jury is not always used. In some cases, the law requires a judge to decide on the facts. Or perhaps the parties do not want a
jury to decide the case. In these cases, the judge decides based on fact and law. judges factlaw Utah's highest court is the state supreme court. This court has , elected to 10-year terms. The
justice with the shortest remaining period in office serves as chief justice. Each of Utah's has one or more , depending on population. five justices 8 districts district court judges In the , the
judicial officers are called justices. There are currently on the Court: a chief justice and eight associate justices. When a vacancy opens, the nominates a new justice who is then confirmed or
rejected by the . Take a minute to learn about each of the nine justices: United States Supreme Court nine justices President Senate