Labor Department Announces Schedule for 13 Season of Job and Career Fairsth Last Updated: August 27, 2008 _ Labor Department Announces Schedule for 13 Season of Job and Career
FairsYou are here: DOL Web Site th For immediate release August 26, 2008 WETHERSFIELD - The Connecticut Department of Labor Career Fair series returns for its fall run on Sept. 25 with
an event held at the Rentschler Field Ballroom in East Hartford. The agency fall line-up also includes the 4th annual fair, taking place Oct. 20 at the Holiday Inn in Waterbury, and the 5
Hartford-Springfield Expo scheduled for Nov. 6 at the Clarion Inn & Suites in East Windsor.Heroes 4 Hire jobthCollege2Career All three job and career fairs will run from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. and
each features free admission for job seekers. "We want to get the word out to every jobseeker and business in this state from Andover to Woodstock nbsp;about our fall Connecticut Career Fair
series," notes State Labor Commissioner Patricia H. Mayfield. "This represents our 13 season of providing successful recruitment events to employers and individuals and the agency has firmly
established itself as a leader in offering this service to hundreds of companies and thousands of jobseekers every year. th According to Mayfield, the agency partnership with community
colleges, chambers of commerce and workforce development associations helps to ensure the success of the job fairs by focusing on the local employment needs of the business community.
Each job fair also features Certified ProfessionalRum/span> Writers from the agency that will help visitors write and revise their rum. The , the Connecticut Department of Labor mobile
workforce center, will also be on hand to provide Internet access for employer applications and to provide information on related employment services.Career Express Job Fair Project Manager
John Tirinzonie noted that employers taking part in the Connecticut Career Fairs have an excellent opportunity to meet with a variety of potential candidates who have professional,
technical/high tech administrative or production backgrounds with experience ranging from entry-level to management. _n addition to our proven experience, we feature a highly-effective
marketing campaign and service-oriented staff for our exhibitors,he explains. e also reach more jobseekers than any other employment event in the state. The Labor Department has an
unbeatable track record in the career fair business because our events are the most economical and cost-effective form of recruitment in Connecticut." Companies can register to exhibit for
one or all of the fall fairs by visiting the Connecticut Department of Labor's Job Fair Web site at or by calling the agency's Job Development Unit at (860) 263-6280. www.ctjobfairs.com Media
Contact: Nancy Steffens (860) 263-6535