These services are administered through the Indiana Child Support Bureau (CSB) in the Office of the Attorney General. The CSB office helps to locate non-custodial parents, establish paternity,
establish and enforce child support orders, collect and disburse child support payments, and modify existing child support orders. Need more information? Read on to learn more about applying
for, paying, and receiving child support in the state of Indiana. Indiana Child Support Laws In the state of Indiana, child support services are provided to roughly 300,000 children. Indiana
Child Support If you are currently receiving either state or federal public assistance through TANF or Medicaid, you will actually be required to pursue child support services in order to help
reimburse the state for the assistance you are receiving. Parents who are not currently receiving public assistance are also eligible to receive child support services from the CSB office.Receiving
Indiana State Laws Child Support Services The CSB office charges a one-time fee of twenty-five dollars to initiate child support services for parents who are not receiving public assistance
There is no fee charged to families who receive TANF or Medicaid.Is There A Fee To Apply For Child Support Services? Indiana CSB office has a cooperative agreement with the local county
prosecutors office in every Indiana county. You can apply for child support services by making an appointment at the local county prosecutor's office in your county of residence. Be sure to
bring all relevant information about your case including court orders, payment records and information about your child other parent. For example, you need to provide as much information as
possible about the non-custodial parent full name, address, place of employment, and Social Security number. There is a nonrefundable application fee of twenty-five dollars for parents who are
not receiving public assistance. You will also be asked to provide photo identification when initiating your child support case.Applying For Indiana Child Support Indiana CSB utilizes numerous
tools to enforce child support obligations. These tools include: income withholding from the non-custodial parent's employer; interception of income tax refunds (state and federal); and
interception of unemployment compensation benefits.Indiana Child Support Enforcement Custodial parents residing in Mation, Allen and Vanderburgh counties have the option of receiving their
child support payments by check, direct deposit, or on the Hoosier Works MasterCard, which is a commercial debit account card (CDA). If you reside in one of these counties, talk with your
caseworker to decide which option will work best for you. Child support is distributed in all other counties by check.Receiving Indiana Child Support Payments The Hoosier Works Card is a
commercial debit account (CDA) card that can be used by custodial parents to receive child support payments. It is available as part of a pilot program for families living in Allen County, Marion
County, and Vanderburgh County. With this card, child support payments are electronically distributed directly into your Hoosier Works Card CDA account. The card can then be used just like
any other debit card wherever MasterCard debit cards are accepted. Indiana Child Support Bureau maintains an automated phone line that can be used to access child support payment
information. This information is available via Indiana Kids Line, 24 hours a day, 7 days per week at or locally at. If you wish to receive an official print out of your child support information, you
can contact your local county clerk office. You can also access child support payment history information at: This website allows both custodial and non-custodial parents to view the last five
payments posted to his or her case.What is A Hoosier Works Card? How Can I Get Information About My Child Support Payments? 1-800-840-8757317-233-5437 http://www.in.gov. You can
request a review of your child support order by making a written request for review to the local prosecutor's office that is charged with managing your case. During the review process, both
parents may be required to provide information to assist with the evaluation. The review will determine whether the amount of child support will increase, decrease, or remain unchanged.How
Do I Make Changes to The Child Support Order? If you have information about the whereabouts of a child support evader or any attempts hide financial assets or employment by a person who
owes child support, you can contact the Indiana Child Support Bureau anonymous tip line at r send an email to A Customer Service Representative is available via Indiana Kids Line from
8:00am until 4:00pm eastern standard time by calling or locally atWhat If I Have Information About A Child Support Evader? Where Can I Get More Information About Indiana Child Support?
 1-800-840-8757317-233-5437 Get Your Child Support -Trouble Collecting Your Child Support? Let a specialist help you get the child support payments you deserve. Collecting Child Support
 This website is here for the sole purpose of information only. In no way is this website for legal advice. Thank you for visiting my website