From the Symposium - Sports Media & Technology Posted by Russell Scibetti Published in , Collegiate Athletics Media The third and final discussion panel that I attended at last Friday's
Princeton Sports Symposium was on Sports Media & Technology. The panelists were Steve Hellmuth (EVP of Operations and Technology, ), Jon Litner (President, ), Burke Magnus (Senior VP of
College Sports Programming, ) and Bill Rasmussen ( and Founding Partner, ), and the moderator was Susan Briglia (VP of Branded Content, ). Here are some of my notes from the discussion:
@ NBA Entertainment Comcast Sports Group ESPN Founder, ESPN College Fanz Sports Network Collegiate Images Burke Magnus on the new deal between the BCS and ESPN: ESPN does have
the advantage of dual revenue streams (subscriber fees and advertising) compared to over-the-air stations, but they also have several other reasons to make the deal. College football is
considered a foundation of ESPN. The company feels like they made a big mistake a few years ago in letting the BCS go to begin with, so there was a feeling of wanting to get back what they
never should have lost. The decision is also based on a content-focused philosophy. ESPN has many platforms to leverage the content on, and the deal does allow them to use all these
platforms, including ESPNU. They now feel like they are well positioned in the sports from the start of the season through to the very end. Jon Litner on the ESPN/BCS deal and competing with
ESPN: Comcast is focused on regional rights, so they dont feel like they compete with ESPN and that there is room for everyone (meanwhile, ESPN feels like that have more competition now
than ever before). The BCS was created in part by ABC, and ESPN/ABC already have the rights to most of college football, so there is a good fit. The deal will also help the various bowls in
selling title/naming rights (more exposure across the ESPN platforms). It is more viable now for the BCS to be on cable. For example, the MLB League Championship Series and NBA
Conference Finals are on cable. Also, 95% of Foxs BCS audience viewed the games via cable or satellite (not over-the-air). The cable migration has already occurring on a regional level (YES,
NESN, etc.) so this has become the norm. On teams/conferences creating their own networks: The number one challenge is distribution. This is what the Big Ten Network has struggled most
with. The iconic brands will succeed, but many smaller initiatives fail to get off the ground, such as attempts in Minnesota and Kansas City. The SEC weighed the options and went with ESPN
because the didnt want to take the distribution risk. The safer course was to take the guaranteed money from rights fees. On sports media content: Networks want new ways to connect with
the audience. The branded show, specifically SportsCenter, was the brilliant concept to put sports programming on the map. Bill Rasmussen specifically shared a fun story on how no one
believed in the SportsCenter concept when they first launched it. Bill was right, everyone else was very wrong! The question is, what original content do we own or can you afford to create that
will resonate like SportsCenter, after considering the money spent on just the rights fees. Innovation can push content to new levels. Two examples are pocket cameras for poker and PTI for
talk/opinion shows. Two other important questions to consider are, how many people are watching and how long are they watching. Efforts like SportsNation on ESPN try to engage the
audience and keep them interested longer. Media companies know that there is a two-screen formula (TV + laptop/mobile), but they dont know how to create the one-screen formula
(interactive TV). The panel members were also asked to sum up their careers in just three words: Bill Rasmussen: Excitement, Enthusiasm, Energy Burke Magnus: Passion, Hustle, Love Jon
Litner: Perseverence, Passion, Listening Steve Hellmuth: Work, Innovation, Knowledge Susan Briglia: Passion, Persistence, Belief Finally, Lewis Howes sat down with Bill Rasmussen for a
video interview after the panel ended. This wraps up my coverage of the Princeton Sports Symposium. There were several other panel discussions going on in parallel to the ones I attended on
topics such as the Olympics, Athlete Representation, and Professional/Amateur Sports Properties, and Im sure those panels were just as interesting and informative. They did an excellent job
compressing a lot of information into a half-day event, and I got to network with some great people. I look forward to attending again next year! You can check out the interview on
SportsNetworker.com. Related Articles