Mother's Day Poems and Funny Stories Touching poems to salute all mothers, whether they're still with us or not, and funny stories to bring a smile to brighten mother's day. You can see it
in their eyes, in tender hugs and long good-byes, a love that only moms and daughters know. You can see it in their smiles, through passing years and changing styles, a friendship that
continually seems to grow. You can see it in their lives, the joy each one of them derives, in just knowing that the other one is there... To care and to understand, lend an ear or hold a hand,
and to celebrate the memories they share. Once upon a memory Someone wiped away a tear Held me close and loved me, Thank you, Mother dear. Mom, I loved you yesterday, I love
you tomorrow and everyday. You were there for me my first day of school, to hold my hand and give me courage to go. You listened to me when I needed to talk, you talked to me when I
needed to listen. You let me grow and learn from my own mistakes. You never left my side when I was feeling down, I knew you would be there to pick me up. I wish there was a way I could
repay alll the things you have done for me, but there's nothing great enough to repay the greatest mother of all Dear Lord, it's such a hectic day With little time to stop and pray For life's
been anything but calm Since You called on me to be a mom Running errands, matching socks Building dreams with building blocks Cooking, deaning, and finding shoes And other stuff that
children lose Fitting lids on bottled bugs Wiping tears and giving hugs A stack of last weeks mail to read So where's the quiet time I need? Yet when I steal a minute, Lord Just at the sink or
ironing board To ask the blessings of Your grace I see then, in my small ones face That you have blessed me All the while And I stop to kiss That precious smile Another Mother's Day is
here, Bringing joy and pleasures new, On this special day, Mother dear, I want to remember you. I cannot give you costly gifts, And I've told you this before, No matter what I give to you, You
give back much, much more. I'm giving you a pure, sweet rose, Gathered in the early morn, This rose you planted in my heart, The day that I was born. In kindly, loving thoughts of you, And
with the faith you still impart, The rose I give to you today, Is the love that's in my heart. Mothers Who are No Longer Among Us These are in memory of my own dear mother who
passed away in the autumn of the year 2000. She is still deeply missed _In tears we saw you sinking, And watched you pass away. Our hearts were almost broken, We wanted you to stay. But
when we saw you sleeping, So peaceful, free from pain, How could we wish you back with us, To suffer that again. It broke our hearts to lose you, But you did not go alone, For part of us went
with you, The day God took you home. __ If Roses grow in Heaven, Lord please pick a bunch for me, Place them in my Mother's arms and tell her they're from me. Tell her I love her and miss
her, and when she tums to smile, place a kiss upon her cheek and hold her for awhile. Because remembering her is easy, I do it every day, but there's an ache within my heart that will never
go away. Don't think of her as gone away Her journey's just begun Life holds so many facets This earth is only one Just think of her as resting From the sorrows and the tears In a place of
warmth and comfort Where there are no days and years Think how she must be wishing That we could know, today Now nothing but our sadness Can really pass away And think of her as living
In the hearts of those she touched For nothing loved is ever lost And she is loved so very much. Anonymous Mother's Day Funny Stories Three old ladies were sitting around a table. The
first says, "I'm getting so forgetful I was standing at the top of the stairs and I couldn't remember whether I was going down or had just come up." The second lady says, "You think that's bad?
The other day I was sitting on my bed and I couldn't remember whether I was going to sleep or getting up." The third lady smiles smugly. "Well, I have no memory problems at all, knock
wood." She raps the table. "Who's there?" Check out this funny story submitted by one of our visitors: There was an elderly lady whom was waiting in the waiting room with her

daughter. The nurse entered the waiting area and announced for the elderly lady to go on back to see the doctor. The nurse spoke louder but still she could not hear. The elderly lady's daughter
leaned over and said, "mother let's turn your hearing aid up." Then she yelled in shock,"That's not your hearing aid, its a suppository! The elderly mother replied,"Well, now I know where my
hearing aid went! _A state trooper pulled a car over and told the man driving that he was going 50 mph in a 40 mph zone. "I was only going 40!" the driver protested, "Not according to my
radar," the trooper said. "Yes, I was!" the man shouted back. "No you weren't!" the trooper said. With that, the man's wife leaned toward the window and said, Officer, I should warn you not to
argue with my husband when he's been drinking." A man rushes into his house yells to his wife, "Martha, pack your things. I just won a million bucks!" Martha excitedly replies. "Shall I
pack for warm weather or cold weather?" The man responds, "I don't care. Just so long as you're out of the house by noon!" _These are real absence excuses sent to school from the
parents of kids at the Wells Branch School District. Dear school please accuse John from being absent on January 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and also 33, Please excuse Dianne from being absent
yesterday. She was in bed with gramps. I had to keep Billie home because she had to go Christmas shopping because I didn't know what size she ware. Please excuse Johnny for being. It was
his fathers fault. Mary could not come to school because she was bothered by very close veins. Chris will not be in school cuz he has an acre in his side. John has been absent because he
had two teeth taken off his face. Excuse Gloria. She has been under the doctor. Lillie was absent from school yesterday because she had a going over. My son is under the doctor's care and
should not take fizaca ed. Please execute him. Carlos was absent yesterday because he was playing football. He was hurt in the growing part. My daughter was absent yesterday because she
was tired. She spent this weekend with the Marines. Please excuse Joyce from P.E. for a few days. Yesterday she fell off a tree and misplaced her hip. Please excuse Ray friday from school. He
has very loose vowels. Maryann was absent December 11-16 because she had a fever, sore throat, headache, and upset stomack. Her sister was also sick, fever and sore throat, her brother
had a low grade fever and ached all over. I wasn't the best either, sore throat and fever. There must be the flu going around, her father even got hot last night. Please excuse Blanche from jim
today. She is adminstrating. Please excuse Pedero from being absent yseterday. He had diah/ dyah/ the sh*ts. George was absent yesterday because he had a stomach. Ralph was absent
yesterday because he had a sore trout. Please excuse Wayne for being out yeaterday, because he had the fuel. Please excuse Sarah for being absent. She was sick and I had her shot.