~ Magazine The Ritz-Carlton Magazine Friday, 03 October 2008 The Ritz-Carlton is more than just a hotel. To the ladies and gentlemen who frequent the company's properties worldwide, it's a
lifestyle a desire to experience the best life has to offer, whether at home or while traveling. To meet this expectation, caters to its readers with compelling articles on the people, places,
products and pastimes that make the modern world an interesting place to be. Like The Ritz-Carlton brand itself, the magazine mixes elegance and sophistication with a sense of energy and
service that's unmatched. The Ritz-Carlton magazine The Ritz-Carlton magazine's modern design differentiates it from its competitors while also communicating the hotel company's No. 1
position in the marketplace. Not only will our magazine build and strengthen the relationship between The Ritz-Carlton and its guests, it will support and enhance the positioning of the brands
within its pages. Created around articles that are timely and relevant, The Ritz-Carlton magazine takes a fresh, original approach to imagery and typography with a color palette that makes
reading each page a pleasure. Indeed, our magazine resonates deeply with discriminating readers and its presence is undeniable. Guests are drawn to The Ritz-Carlton magazine and, in turn,
to your advertisements. Without a doubt, products and services featured in The Ritz-Carlton magazine get noticed. Essentials The Ritz-Carlton magazine is the largest in-room publication in
the Five-Star Deluxe category The Ritz-Carlton is among the top five hotels in brand loyalty, as ranked by Business 2.0 Published jointly by McMurry (No. 1 custom publisher in the U.S.) and
Reader's Digest (most successful magazine in publishing history reaching 100 million readers around the world each month) Recognition 2007, The Luxury Institute in its Annual Survey of
Affluent Consumers awarded The Ritz-Carlton with the Number One Rating for "Best Customer Experience Two-time winner of most prestigious luxury brand hotel per the Luxury Brand Status
Index survey of Luxury Hotels from a sample of more than 500 households of America's wealthiest Two-time winner of the Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Award, an honor received by only
one other American company Recipient of Folio's prestigious Gold Ozzie for "Best Custom Publishing Magazine Redesign", 2007 Maggie Awards "Best Color Editorial Feature", and 13 awards in
2007 and 2006 for outstanding design and editorial J.D. Powers ranked The Ritz-Carlton highest in guest satisfaction in the luxury market in 2007 Distribution More than 65 Ritz-Carlton
properties worldwide A bonus distribution to all The Ritz-Carlton Clubs and Ritz-Carlton Residences Available for sale at all Ritz-Carlton boutiques and gift shops Offering Local and global
advertising opportunities (From The Ritz-Carlton Magazine Media Kit) Visit The Ritz-Carlton Magazine, Fall 2006 Download Page You can download the publication in PDF format. In this
month's magazine: Skip the strip and take a gamble on he otherVegashere mountain bikes and kayaks rule and the real stars are in the sky. Leaving Las Vegas Comfortably ensconced in a
9-foot kayak on a balmy Nevada afternoon, I paddled along the edge of Lake Las Vegas, enjoying a pretematurally tranquil scene. As the sun slipped low in the sky, the rolling, rocky hills
around me tumed soft pink, then, soon after, deep, luminous lavender. A waterfall babbled nearby. The only other sounds were the lapping of my paddle and the kayak bow gently cutting the
lake surface. Amid such serenity, I found myself grappling with a bit of cognitive dissonancehe confl ict psychologists talk about between one beliefs and actions. After all, my experience of Las,
Vegas to date had consisted mainly of brief visits to the teeming Las Vegas Strip, with its snarled traffic, whirring slot machines and sprawling mega-resorts. That, as far as I was concerned,
was the extent of Las Vegas, or at least the Las Vegas that caters to visitors. Yet, here I was, only 17 miles from the heart of the Strip, paddling in near silence on a picturesque lake, feeling
deeply, utterly relaxed. I traveled here to spend several days at The Ritz-Cariton, Lake Las Vegas. The hotel spans one end of the 320-acre lakehe largest privately owned manmade lake in the
United Statesnd is surrounded by acclaimed golf courses and rolling hills. My plan was simple: to explore the outdoor possibilities that this very different side of the Las Vegas area offers, from
kayaking and hiking to mountain biking, golf and even stargazing. ... Designer Christopher Radko is a man for all seasons.It Ornamental For photo artist Gregory Colbert and sculptor Gregory
Ryan, the exploration of animal kingdoms, seascapes and land patterns is an obsession. Though both areoincidentallyfriends, each uses his medium to convey different insights into the true
nature of things.Call of The Wild