Register On-Line It is REQUIRED that you complete an "On-Line" registration or contact Assistant Training Officer Peter Girling at least one week before the course starts if you plan to attend
this course. Your advance registration is required so that we may be sure to have sufficient materials available for everyone in the class. The balance of the registration process will be
completed at 18:30 (6:30 PM) on the first night of class. The course will cover many of the significant aspects of the formation and behaviour of the weather around us. It is presented in a
straight-forward form, eliminating much of the technical "jargon", and is designed as an introductory weather course for those who want a more practical approach. By recording a few simple
observations every day and comparing them in class, each boater sees the application of the text and lecture material to the "real world. Detailed Course Outline The course will cover many
of the significant asects of the formation and behaviour of the weather around us. Meteorology - or the scientific study of the principles of weather - can be somewhat technical. This course has
been presented in a straightforward form which has eliminated much of the technical "jargon", while retaining the essence of the material. You will discover that the subject of weather is both
fascinating and satisfying. All it will need is your enthusiasm to observe and record the daily "goings-on" of the air in which we live and the water on which we boat. With practice, it will even
become possible for you to make a short-term forecast. You will not always be right, but neither are professional forecasters, and you will have satisfaction - and fun - doing it! Enjoy the
course! 1.0 How the Sun Causes Weather 1.1 The Atmosphere 1.2 The Troposphere, Tropopause, and Stratosphere 1.3 How the Sun Causes Weather 1.4 The Earth's Heat Budget, and How
It Is Balanced 1.5 Why Is the Sky Blue, Daddy? 2.0 What Causes the Wind To Blow 2.1 What Is Pressure? 2.2 Measurement of Barometric Pressure The Mercury Barometer 2.3 High and
Low Pressures-Airflow and Circulation 2.4 Land and Sea Breezes 2.5 High and Low Pressure Pattems 2.6 Buys-Ballot's Law