Starbucks raising drink prices by five cents Like this story? Share it with Yahoo! Buzz Lattes, cappuccinos and drip coffee from your coffee-loving pocket at Starbucks, the chain says. Citing
rising costs, Starbucks says the coming increase is the first for its drinks in two years. A 50-cent jump for 2 pound of beans is reportedly the first such hike in nine years. are all going to take
another nickel Why are the increases news? The price of Starbucks coffee is often cited in state-of-the-consumer-world roundups, and even has explored a "." At the Starbucks Gossip blog --
run by and self-admitted coffee addict Jim Romenesko -- a discussion .The Economist tall latte index leading media blogger is already underway today The last time Starbucks raised drink
prices, : "Starbucks must be banking on the theory that the people who buy its coffee don't just need coffee, they need Starbucks coffee, which packs a higher caffeine punch than many
competitors. ... In fact, it could be that many of Starbucks customers DI see them, lining up in the moming, clutching the brew like a security blanket C1 literally need the stuff to get through
the day." Slate explored the effects What do you think about the price bump? Posted by Patrick Cooper at 09:58 AM/ET,September 22, 2006 in Money | Permalink Like this story? Share it with
Yahoo! Buzz 1 Latte DOES equal 1 Gallon of Gas. I get about 20-22 miles down the road with 1 of each. Posted by: justme | Oct 4, 2006 1:40:53 AM Common Sense The coffee and gasoline
comparison was brought up due to the profit margin of each. The profit margins are not apples an oranges... "Who is the idiot that made the comment that Starbucks doesn't support the
troops? Do some research - please!!!" He did his research...he listened to Rush Limbaugh! Posted by: Ryan | Sep 23, 2006 5:14:12 PM Even a Starbucks lover such as myself has limits. The
coffee's not cheap, but the specialty drinks are much more expensive than that. A Venti Pumpkin Spice Latte is $4.60 with tax. I'm calling it quits. When asked why this particular latte is so
expensive, the "barista" answers that it has to do with the whipped cream. However, if you order it "no whip" the price is the same. I used to drive an old Chevy Camaro, and it was in "cherry
condition." I sold it for a grand. Now, at the Barrett-Jackson auction, the same car goes for $195,000. Starbucks isn't the problem. Our attitudes are. STOP THE INSANITY. Posted by: Neall |
Sep 23, 2006 12:34:59 AM Part of the confusion in this forum is that people are quoting prices for both their regular coffee drinks ($1.40 to $1.90 a cup, depending on cup size and store
location) and their fancier, pricier drinks, like lattes, cappucinos and frappacinos ($3.00 to $5.00 a cup, again depending on cup size and store location, as well as the type of drink). Posted by:
Common Sense | Sep 23, 2006 12:10:43 AM Who is the idiot that made the comment that Starbucks doesn't support the troops? Do some research - please!!! I guess they never had an MRI
or even stood in their shoes!! Idiot - they donate coffee (tons) to the troops - thats their only luxuty.... speaking from experience... research before you jump on the war band wagon idoit.

@ Posted by: Ugh!!!!! | Sep 22, 2006 10:27:02 PM I personally don't care what the folks who think that Starbucks doesn't have great coffee; I think it does and to each his own. People have
different tastes and those of us who enjoy our coffee, lattes, etc. from Starbucks will continue to do so. To each his own; I don't like coffee from Tim Horton's, but that's what I think and IT
happen to enjoy the coffee from Starbucks as do millions of others. To each his own. Posted by: | Coffee Me Over Sep 22, 2006 8:06:39 PM Bash the coffee all you want, but please do a little
research before you dump on the company. Starbucks consistently makes the list off 100 top companies to work for and was #17 on the Business Ethics Magazine's top 100 list for 2006. They
offer FULL benefits to employees who work an average of 20 hrs. a week and encourage those employees to be active in their communities. They will "pay" for volunteer time at the rate of
$10/hr. to approved non-profit organizations and donate millions of dollars through foundation grants for literacy programs. I am sure that this insignificant price increase is a business necessity
and not a way to line the CEO's pocket! And a final note. Iam not sure where you all are paying $4 for every cup of coffee you buy (or not)~ where I live, it is $1.94 for the largest- tax
included! Posted by: LAF | Sep 22, 2006 7:05:20 PM Well if Starbucks are charging $4.00 for a cup then whats 5 cents more for those who have the $$ or are so goofy in the head to drink
that overpriced brew to begin with. McDonalds and Burger King high caffine coffee is just as good but why bother with them when you can get fix your own at home? Whats 5 cents really?
Posted by: Duane Boda | Sep 22, 2006 6:52:35 PM When people compare the price of coffee with the price of gasoline, it drives me nuts! A 12 oz. cup of regular Starbucks house blend coffee
is anywhere between $1.40 and $1.65 (not $3 to $4 people! - that price applies to their latte's, cappucino, frappucino and other specialty drinks). Since a gallon is 128 oz., that means a gallon
of their regular coffee would be anywhere between $14.93 and $17.60 (not the $32 to $64 I've seen posted here). And yes, that's still quite a bit more than a gallon of gasoline (which was
anywhere between $3.00 and $3.50 a gallon this summer, but is now plummeting to below $2.50 a gallon). BUT.....how far does just one gallon of gasoline a day get you (esp. for those who
have long commutes to and from work or school, or those stupid enough to continue driving gas guzzling SUVs)? On the other hand, who in their right mind would drink a gallon of coffee a
day?!? I'd imagine the average coffee drinker only has 1 to 3 cups a day (which is all most people need). Comparing the prices of completely different commodities like coffee and gasoline
makes no sense. It's apples and oranges people! Get a clue! Posted by: Common Sense | Sep 22, 2006 6:42:38 PM I get up before dawn and make my own coffee. Then, I fix it just the way
I like it, with sugar and milk. The only place in town that made better coffee went out of business after the owner died. It sure was good, and they served donuts, too. I tried Starbucks coffee
once, and it was too bitter. Later, I discovered that adding honey will smooth it out. Posted by: | Rapidweather Sep 22, 2006 6:17:49 PM It must be the Tsunami in Sri Lanka, there must be a
coffee shortest. I understand Starbucks does not support our troops. There are to many starbucks chain stores, that their coffee is not great anymore. I prefer PEETS coffee from California
There is also good coffee at Dunkin donuts, McDonalds, and New Mexico Pinon coffee. Cheaper to buy a bog from Albertson, Safeways and make it yourself. Posted by: a | Sep 22, 2006
6:02:23 PM Starbucks raising its coffee prices is good. Starbucks raised its coffee drinks by five cents causing many in South America to stop growing cocaine for a better cash crop--the coffee
bean. So, when you buy a cup of coffee from Starbucks, not only will the chicks love you [Starbucks coffee now ranks as the number 1 status symbol over second place Ferrari among trailer
trash chicks], but also you are fighting the war on drugs....and winning!!!_ Posted by: | Richard McDonald Sep 22, 2006 5:49:20 PM DD makes really good coffee, and if you want good, plain
coffee, WaWa is good, too. But that was when I lived in PA/NJ. In Vegas, neither is available. The Coffee Bean is a good alternative -- a little less pricey that SB, but their coffee is less acidic
and bitter, and doesn't come across as a production line. I only settle for SB when nothing better is around. Posted by: Need My Morning Java | Sep 22, 2006 5:46:17 PM It would be nice if a
small percentage of the the nickel would go to a good cause. Maybe cancer research or perhaps like Gates, build a third world economy so they too can buy the brand. A great way to improve
the Starbucks image! By the way... Walmart and McDonalds could make a difference too! Posted by: Brent from Sarasota | Sep 22, 2006 5:40:18 PM It must be the tsunami in Sti lanka, their
is a shortest of coffee supply. I understand that Starbuck do not support our military. I prefer PEETS coffee from California. Starbuck has gone down since they became a chain store. Posted
by: a | Sep 22, 2006 5:05:06 PM Drinking Starbuck's coffee is a status symbol? For losers. I make coffee at home and at work. The money I save I use to buy gifts for my family when I go to
Europe every year. That's my cup o! joe. Americans just love thier pet rocks. Posted by: laughing at you, not with you | Sep 22, 2006 4:57:26 PM Love Starbucks and will continue to buy from
them. Posted by: Milwaukee | Sep 22, 2006 4:55:45 PM Here in Chicago we have a local coffee shop called Intelligentsia. The prices of their coffee drinks are comparable to SB. However, their
coffee beans can be purchased at a discount and the quality is above and beyond SB's beans. Next time you're in Chicago, you must stop by Intelligentsia.