Using an adobe contractor versus building yourself: costs of building an adobe home - page 3 of 5 _You'll need to make decisions about: - (Saltillo tile, brick on sand, flagstone, stamped
and dyed concrete, carpet on slab, etc.) - (exposed sealed adobe, plastered adobe, and the type of plaster finish) -(exposed , coved ceiling, vaulted , ordinary sheet rock, etc). -plus, many,
many other decisions...floors wall finishes ceiling choicesvigas and latillasbovedas All of these decisions lead to a set of working drawings. Will you draft them yourself, farm them out to an
experienced draftsperson, or hire a contractor or architect? Once you begin, how long will it take? An adobe contractor in Albuquerque or Tucson, can complete the average turn-key, custom
adobe in four months- building one house in the spring, another in the fall, or two a year. The average owner-builder, working with fewer tools, a smaller crew, and less experience, will be lucky
to finish in a year. All of these questions lead to the last question, "what will it cost ?_..adobe and rammed earth are do-it-yourself materials, very forgiving to the novice, YOUR COST
PARAMETERS Above: Custom two-story adobe in Corrales, New Mexico Below: Adobe interior by builder- artist Gary Williams of Tucson, Arizona and very green for
the environment. We have codes, so we must build to a standard. And we have lifestyle expectations. Most who want a nice adobe or rammed earth home have higher . That is, we love that
omate wrought iron light fixture from Guadalajara, the beautiful red-brown Saltillo tile floor, or the handsome round vigas, with herringbone latillas above. Not to mention the high-tech,
energy-saving window units, the Mexican hand-carved entry door, or the adobe hand-shaped nichos or bancos. If your expectations are high, expect to pay more. If you can be happy with a
smaller, economy adobe without all the bells and whistles, your cost can be lower- much lower. Owner builders typically cut costs by 50%.artistic expectations Costs for owner-built projects
start at a low of $55 per square foot, using salvaged and saved materials, a simple design and a few custom touches. As one adds features, a more realistic figure might be $85