1. _Is the person that shows up to do your party, the one you met with? _As with a lot of DJ services, they have several different DJs that are assigned to do different jobs. You should
meet with the DJ that will be doing your party. You don't need any surprises at the last minute. We will meet with you as many times at it takes to find out what you have in mind for your
party and go over the type of music that interests you. Tune Tyme will help you with music for your wedding and furnish you with a wedding packet with lists of popular music for , , , ,
,COUPLES FIRST DANCEFATHER/DAUGHTER DANCE, MOTHER/SON DANCEFAMILY DANCESWEDDING PARTY DANCEGARDER/BOUQUETLAST DANCE, LOVE SONGS. 2. _ Is the person going
to be dressed in the proper attire? _Will your DJ show up at your wedding in blue jeans? It is very important that your DJ show up wearing the proper attire for the occasion. After all he /
she will be the one up front during most of the event. 3. What type of equipment is he going to show up with? Many DJs use equipment
that can be purchased at your local Retail Stores.This equipment is designed mostly for home use. This equipment will not produce the quality or sound you would be paying for. With the
stress of commercial use it tends to break down far more often then the more expense sound equipment.Professional quality Tune tyme has the latest and most updatedprofessional
qualityequipmentavailable. This equipment is specially designed for mobile DJ and Karaoke use. We also carry with us, back up equipment just in case something goes wrong. 4. Does this
person have back up equipment with him? The last thing you need is to have your party spoiled because your DJ's equipment failed at the last minute and there is no back up. Your Tune Tyme
DJ will have backup equipment and components with him at all parties. 5. _If this person is ill, does he have a back up person? Having a back upis a must. You don't want your DJ calling
in the day of the party or the wedding to say he's ill and can't make it. une Tyme has a back up DJ available at all times in case something should happen or go wrong at the last minute.T

6. Does this person have enough music to accommodate requests or different types and styles? You wouldn't want to find out at the last minute that most of the DJs music is all Rap if
your looking for mostly country. Tune Tyme has over 6000 song titles of all types and styles. We are able to handle over 80 % of the requests we may have. If you have special requests
before hand we will make sure we have what you want. 7. _Is your DJ equally as capable of doing Karaoke? Being a good DJ is one thing, but being able to do karaoke is another. Just
having karaoke equipment is not enough. __ It takes a special talent to do a Karaoke party.Your DJ needs to be a person that is able to make people feel at ease enough to get up in front and
participate. This is not always easy at first, but once it gets going it will be one of the highlights of the party. 8. How much experience has you DJ had. Tune Tyme has been doing DJ and
Karaoke work for over 7 years. Please contact us for a list of references. email