What is a Byki list? A Byki list is a collection of learnable information, usually a set of words or phrases in a foreign language, expressed on flash cards. Byki lists may include sound or images
for each card and may be viewed on Byki.com, or downloaded for use in free or Deluxe versions of the Byki software for PCs and Macs. What is a Byki list? Why do I see cards repeated? Byki
uses an intelligent method to present information in the best possible order to help you learn. You will see items you have trouble with more often than those you master quickly. When you get
a card wrong, you will see it again immediately. Why do I see cards repeated? Why can't I see card text in some languages? Some languages require certain fonts be installed to display
characters. If you cannot see the characters in a list, you may download and install it with Byki on your desktop to set the font for your system. Or, you may install the fonts yourself in your
control panel. Once the font is installed, lists in that language should display properly on Byki.com. Why can't I see card text in some languages? Just type the base letter and then press.
Ctrl-UpArrow. Keep pressing Ctri-UpArrow until the accent you want has appeared. For more help, press the question mark button on Byki. How do I type accents? How do I play sound? Ifa
list has sound for each card, it will play automatically whenever the foreign word or phrase is displayed. You may also play the sound for any card by pressing the play sound button on the
bottom left. Slow sound may be used by pressing the turtle button. How do I play sound? The Byki Deluxe software enables you to make lists and share them with friends or post them for the
public to use for free on. Byki.com users can purchase Byki Deluxe for 20% off the normal price by visiting How do I make a list? How do I increase my score? Each correct answer increases
your score, while each incorrect answer reduces it. The size of score movements will depend upon your previous progress in all of the learning modes. You will see the score for each card
displayed on the card itself and in the View List tab. The scoring area to the right of the card will track your progress and display how many cards you have raised to each scoring level. How do
Tincrease my score? How can I save my scores? Unfortunately, your scores for a certain list are not maintained between sessions. This is one of many great reasons to . With Byki Deluxe, you
may download any list in Byki List Central, use it as often as you like, and track and save your scores for all your lists. How can I save my scores? Where do I get more lists? You can get
more free lists by searching , downloading a dozen free lists and free software in our . The best collection of lists however is included in Byki Deluxe. Getting over 90 great learning lists is only
one great reason to Where do I get more lists?