College Fanz Sports Network Virtual Pressbox Smash Hit Over 2,000 Opened at 2008 CoSIDA Convention in Tampa Thursday, July 10, 2008 MT. LAUREL, N.J. -- The College Sports
Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) enthusiastically embraced the Virtual Pressbox(TM) that was unveiled by the College Fanz Sports Network(TM) at CoSIDA's annual convention. Over
2,000 were opened and praise for the concept was overwhelming. "What's great about College Fanz from an athletic communicators perspective is that all of our sports are represented,
providing something for all our fans," said Bill Wagner, Sports Information Director at DePauw University. "There is nothing else like College Fanz. It encompasses everything we need. All our
fans can find everything about all our teams, all in one place." "I opened my Virtual Pressbox on Monday morning and within four hours I received a Google News Alert that a fan had posted
comments about our rifle team," said Robert Heller, Assistant Athletic Director and Sports Information Director at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia. "It was particularly impressive to
me that someone commented on one of our less well-known sports, and so quickly, which amazed me." "I like the system for uploading the schedules and results, it's easy and simple to use,
and College Fanz has given me tremendous tech support, said Dave Wrath, Associate Director of Athletics for Media and Alumni Relations at Augustana College. "I look forward to getting this
out to our alumni and our other fans when the fall seasons start." More Virtual Pressbox validation came from members of the ACC, SEC, Big East, Big 10, Big Sky and the Atlantic 10, among
them, Syracuse, Maryland, Mississippi, Iowa, Brigham Young, St. John's, Temple and Delaware. Ed Carpenter, long-time CoSIDA member and ex-officio board member, said, "I was impressed
by the number of attendees who signed up on the spot to open their Virtual Pressbox, which is a great tribute to the immediate impact College Fanz made on our members." College Fanz is the
latest venture from Bill Rasmussen, the visionary who created ESPN. The web site boasts over 20,000 pages devoted to more than 1,300 colleges and universities throughout the United States
competing in over 220,000 NCAA and NAIA athletic events.