Web design by michael heroux Split This Rock 2007-2008 writers, activitists, and just plain folks from around the country and the world have written heartfelt accounts of the first Split This
Rock Poetry Festival. to read their words and be inspired! Save the date: March 10-13, 2010! uill Brazel Support Our Arts Stimulus Campaign Artists contribute greatly to our society as
educators, agents of change and builders of community, yet many live without health insurance and struggle with issues of housing and security. In the less than a month, Congress will pass 2
$600 billion stimulus package in order to stimulate the economy and help create jobs. Split This Rock has joined up with to call on Congress to include the arts in its stimulus package. We need
your help! Take a moment, please, and sign our petition and send word along to friends. Institute for Policy Studies http://www. ipetitions.com/petition/artsstimulus/index.html Read Melissa
Tuckey's Interview with Naomi Shihab Nye recently featured an interview with Split This Rock featured poet Naomi Shihab Nye: .Foreign Policy in Focus www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5519 Sign the
Appeal to Creative Artists Poets who attended the Split This Rock Poetry Festival have issued an Appeal to Creative Artists for a week of creative protest against war and social injustice to be
held March 15-21, 2009 (marking the 6th anniversary of the present Iraq war). We propose Monday, March 16, as a specific day on which we will "Speak Art to Power"that is, find creative
ways to communicate our message, through art, directly to those in government. Join our efforts! To read and sign the petition online, . To download the petition as a PDF file and share it with
fellow artists, . click here click here Support Split This Rock Split This Rock depends on a strong financial foundation. Your funds will help support grassroots outreach, communications, and
planning for the 2010 festival and other programs. They will help us create a stable organization you can count on to serve your interests as a socially engaged poet. Gifts of any size will be
deeply appreciated. We hope you'll consider giving $50, $100, or more. The Institute for Policy Studies is still accepting donations on our behalf. Click here to donate: Donations by mail can be
sent to: Split This Rock, 1112 16th Street NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC 20036. We thank you! https: //salsa.democracyinaction.org/o/357/t/8457/shop/custom.jsp?donate_page_KEY=4271
Join us -- and Volunteer at the Split This Rock table at AWP in Chicago! Split This Rock will be at the Associated Writing Programs conference () in Chicago in February--table #309. Let us
know if you'll be there! We'll be hosting a party and much fun will be had at our table with book signings, haiku postcards to the new president, and more. Let us know if you have a few hours
to volunteer at the table. http://www.awpwriter.org/conference/2009awpconf.php In 2009, as we prepare for the 2010 festival and expand our work, Split This Rock will be looking for
volunteers for a variety of activities. Stay tuned, and let us know if you would like to help! Be a guest blogger on Blog This Rock is a community space. Recently, we've been recruiting poets to
blog their reaction to the election and their experiences on election night. We will continue this conversation for a few more weeks. Beyond that, we welcome well-written updates and musings
on poetry and activism. Contact Co-Director Melissa Tuckey () if you'd like to be a guest blogger. It is our intention that the blog represent a diversity of voices and opinions in the spirit of Split
This Rock. Blog This Rock melissa.dcpaw@gmail.com Read What Artists and Activists Are Saying About Split This Rock Click here Read the Split This Rock Collaborative Poem On March 23,
2008, during the first Split This Rock Poetry Festival, participants marched to the White House and contributed to the creation of an amazing collaborative poem about peace. To create this
cento, participants each read out loud one line of no more than 12 words. . Click here to read the poem Pacifica Radio Coverage of the Festival Pacifica Radio recorded an hour of highlights
from the festival. To hear poets reading, (53 MB mp3 file). For more information about Pacifica Radio, . click here click here Split This Rock Festival a Smashing SuccessInspires Hundreds of
Poet-Activists The four-day festival brought hundreds of poets of conscience and activists to Washington, D.C. from all over the United States for readings, panels, workshops, a film program,
walking tours, open Mics, and inspiration. The turn-out and the quality of the events were spectacular, exceeding all expectations. The Washington Post covered the festival in a lengthy and
poetic article by reporter David Montgomery entitled, "." Averse to War: Split This Rock's Army of Poets Marches Into Town and Raises the Anti An excerpt: "The poets are in town. Dozens --
no, hundreds. Hundreds of poets. Can you imagine? They are everywhere. "In long, disheveled columns, they are prowling Langston Hughes's old neighborhood around U Street NW. They are
eating catfish at Busboys and Poets (where else?) and quoting Hughes, Shelley and Whitman back and forth -- "Through me many long dumb voices" -- over the hummus and merlot. "They
are signing fans' battered paperbacks and shiny new ones bought on credit (autographs!). They are squinting from the stage into the cathedral depths of a filled high school auditorium, amazed
at the turnout. They are sharing with preschoolers the miracle of closely observed turtles and infinity in a drop of water. "Also, to mark the fifth anniversary of the war in Iraq, they are getting
ready to march on the White House." to read the rest of the article. Click here uill Brazel Poet Karren LaLonde Alenier has also posted several write ups on the festival at her blog, The
Dressing. to read her commentary and see photos. Click here Split This Rock Poetry Contest: Winning Poems Online the top three winning poems and learn about the finalists. First prize went
to Jeffrey Thomson for "Achilles in Jasper, Texas." Second prize went to Persis M. Karim for "Ways to Count the Dead." Third prize went to David-Matthew Barnes for "Latin Freestyle." The
contest was judged by Kyle G. Dargan. Click here to read Foreign Policy in Focus and Common Dreams Publish Essay About Split This Rock , a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, has
published a special feature in conjunction with Split This Rock. FPIF's Fiesta section, which explores the intersection of art and foreign policy, featured Sarah Browning's essay on Split This Rock
entitled "Hear This Hammer Ring." And, with the help of Melissa Tuckey, FPIF was able to highlight the profoundly moving poetry of Lee Sharkey, Susan Tichey, Christi Kramer, and others. Visit
for more of our Split This Rock coverage. Foreign Policy in Focus www.fpif.org_, the national non-profit citizens organization working to bring progressive Americans together, has also published
"Hear This Hammer Ring." The essay explains the genesis of the festival and describes "why we need poetry now, more than ever." Says Browning, "We need poets to tell the complex human
story. Poets cut through the fog of propaganda and remind us of the real consequences of our government's actions." to read the essay. Common Dreams Click here Send us a "Haiku Postcard
to the President!" Read haiku written to Dubya by attendees of the 2008 AWP Conference in New York City.