Summary The next day at Elsinore Castle, tells how he plotted to overcome s scheme to have him murdered in England. He replaced the sealed letter carried by the unsuspecting and
Guildenstern, which called for Hamlet's execution, with one calling for the execution of the bearers of the letterRosencrantz and Guildenstem themselves. He tells Horatio that he has no
sympathy for Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, who betrayed him and catered to Claudius, but that he feels sorry for having behaved with such hostility toward . In Laertes desire to avenge his
father's death, he says, he sees the mirror image of his own desire, and he promises to seek Laertes good favor. Hamlet Horatio Claudius Rosencrantz Laertes Their conversation is
interrupted by , a foolish courtier. Osric tries to flatter Hamlet by agreeing with everything Hamlet says, even when he contradicts himself; in the space of seconds, he agrees first that it is cold,
then that it is hot. He has come to tell them that Claudius wants Hamlet to fence with Laertes and that the king has made a wager with Laertes that Hamlet will win. Then Osric begins to praise
Laertes effusively, though Hamlet and Horatio are unable to determine what point he is trying to make with his overly elaborate proclamations. Finally, a lord enters and asks Hamlet if he is
ready to come to the match, as the king and queen are expecting him. Against Horatios advice, Hamlet agrees to fight, saying that alls ill here about my heart, but that one must be ready
for death, since it will come no matter what one does (V.ii.). The court marches into the hall, and Hamlet asks Laertes for forgiveness, claiming that it was his madness, and not his own will,
that murdered . Laertes says that he will not forgive Hamlet until an elder, an expert in the fine points of honor, has advised him in the matter. But, in the meantime, he says, he will accept
Hamlet's offer of love. Osric 222 Polonius They select their foils (blunted swords used in fencing), and the king says that if Hamlet wins the first or second hit, he will drink to Hamlet's health,
then throw into the cup a valuable gem (actually the poison) and give the wine to Hamlet. The duel begins. Hamlet strikes Laertes but declines to drink from the cup, saying that he will play
another hit first. He hits Laertes again, and rises to drink from the cup. The king tells her not to drink, but she does so anyway. In an aside, Claudius murmurs, It is the poisond cup: it is too
late (Vsii.). Laertes remarks under his breath that to wound Hamlet with the poisoned sword is almost against his conscience. But they fight again, and Laertes scores a hit against Hamlet,
drawing blood. Scuffling, they manage to exchange swords, and Hamlet wounds Laertes with Laertes own blade. Gertrude 235 The queen falls. Laertes, poisoned by his own sword, declares,
Lam justly killd with my own treachery (V.ii.). The queen moans that the cup must have been poisoned, calls out to Hamlet, and dies. Laertes tells Hamlet that he, too, has been slain, by his
own poisoned sword, and that the king is to blame both for the poison on the sword and for the poison in the cup. Hamlet, in a fury, runs Claudius through with the poisoned sword and forces
him to drink down the rest of the poisoned wine. Claudius dies crying out for help. Hamlet tells Horatio that he is dying and exchanges a last forgiveness with Laertes, who dies after absolving
Hamlet.318 The sound of marching echoes through the hall, and a shot rings out nearby. Osric declares that has come in conquest from Poland and now fires a volley to the English
ambassadors. Hamlet tells Horatio again that he is dying, and urges his friend not to commit suicide in light of all the tragedies, but instead to stay alive and tell his story. He says that he
wishes Fortinbras to be made King of Denmark; then he dies. Fortinbras _Fortinbras marches into the room accompanied by the English ambassadors, who announce that Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern are dead. Horatio says that he will tell everyone assembled the story that led to the gruesome scene now on display. Fortinbras orders for Hamlet to be carried away like a soldier.
Analysis In the final scene, the violence, so long delayed, erupts with dizzying speed. Characters drop one after the other, poisoned, stabbed, and, in the case of Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern, executed, as the theme of revenge and justice reaches its conclusion in the moment when Hamlet finally kills Claudius. In the moments before the duel, Hamlet seems peaceful,
though also quite sad. He says that he feels ill in his heart, but he seems reconciled to the idea of death and no longer troubled by fear of the supernatural. Exactly what has caused the change
in Hamlet is unclear, but his desire to attain Laertes forgiveness clearly represents an important shift in his mental state. Whereas Hamlet previously was obsessed almost wholly with himself
and his family, he is now able to think sympathetically about others. He does not go quite so far as to take responsibility for Poloniuss death, but he does seem to be acting with a broader
perspective after the shock of s death. Hamlet's death at the hands of Laertes makes his earlier declaration over Poloniuss corpse, that God has chosen to punish me with this and this with
me, prophetic (IILiv.). His murder of Polonius does punish him in the end, since it is Laertes vengeful rage over that murder that leads to Hamlets death. Ophelia 174 That death is neither
heroic nor shameful, according to the moral logic of the play. Hamlet achieves his fathers vengeance, but only after being spurred to it by the most extreme circumstances one might consider
possible: watching his mother die and knowing that he, too, will die in moments. The arrival of Fortinbras effectively poses the question of political legitimacy once again. In marked contrast
to the corrupted and weakened royal family lying dead on the floor, Fortinbras clearly represents a strong-willed, capable leader, though the play does not address the question of whether his
rule will restore the moral authority of the state,