Elliptical Fitness Equipment - The Benefits Elliptical fitness equipment is growing in popularity, and is gaining on treadmills as far as total sales. Why is this relative newcomer suddenly the
darling of the fitness equipment industry? There are several reasons: Low-Impact Workout from Elliptical Motion Elliptical fitness equipment answers the needs of an aging population that is
fraught with injuries and stains. The majority of exercise related injuries are simply from constant impact. There is impact from just about every type of cardio workout you can perform. This is
particularly true with running and even walking. When you run you impact 2.5 times your body weight with every stride and step. That puts a considerable strain not only on your ankles and
feet, but also your knees and back. When you run or walk on concrete and asphalt you compound the problem. Treadmills help to some extent, by absorbing some of the impact, but there is
still that constant jolt to your joints. Elliptical fitness equipment moves in an elliptical motion. There is never a real impact or reverse action. When you combine the elliptical motion with
articulating foot pedals, pedals that move with your stride, you significantly reduce any strain to your joints. Elliptical Fitness Equipment Provides Total Body Workout Actually total body
workout is more marketing hype, but elliptical trainers do provide an upper and lower body workout. Not only does an elliptical tone parts of your upper body, but it also maximizes your cardio
workout. With the more comprehensive aerobic exercise of an elliptical you are involving more of your muscle mass. By exercising more of your muscle mass you improve fat mobilization,
which results in burning more calories and building muscle endurance more efficiently. It is suggested that this process reduces the perceived rate of exertion. In other words, you are
exercising harder and yet you do not notice a difference. There is no other machine that offers this benefit. with elliptical fitness equipment you are getting an upper and lower body workout
that utilizes the quadriceps, hamstrings, glutes, chest, back, triceps and biceps. Buying Elliptical Fitness Equipment So if you have come to the conclusion that an elliptical machine is right for
you, what should you buy? We recommend that you avoid the cheap equipment. We are talking about the ellipticals that are found in mass retailer stores like Walmarts and cost less than
$1,000. If you want a machine that is going to last spend $1,000 or more. If you want heart rate control, add a couple dollars. The more you spend the better quality and components. Also,
you really notice a difference in the elliptical motion. It is smooth rather than jerky. That should be minimum 2 years parts and 1 year labor. Anything less suggest inferior quality. Buy ellipticals
with a reasonable warranty. A moderately priced machine should last you since elliptical fitness equipment last longer from less impact than a treadmill. A good moderate priced machine is the
Sole E356. It normally is priced at $1,299, including shipping. Click here for . Sole E35 Elliptical Trainer Review *This article on Elliptical Fitness Equipment is copyrighted and registered by
www.fitness-equipment-source.com. All rights reserved.  2009 InterMax Inc. All Rights Reserved