Knives - except for plastic or round bladed butter knives No No Yes Razor-Type Blades - such as box cutters, utility knives, razor blades not in a cartridge, but excluding safety razors. No
Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches Yes No Yes Any sharp objects in checked baggage should be sheathed or securely wrapped to prevent injury to baggage
handlers and inspectors.NOTE: Carry-on Checked Ammunition - Check with your airline or travel agent to see if ammunition is permitted in checked baggage on the airline you are flying. If
ammunition is permitted, it must be declared to the airline at check-in. Small arms ammunitions for personal use must be securely packed in fiber, wood or metal boxes or other packaging
specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. Ask about limitations or fees, if any, that apply. . Read our Firearms & Ammunition section No No Yes Compressed Air Guns (to
include paintball markers) - Carried in checked luggage without compressed air cylinder attached. No Yes Firearms - firearms carried as checked baggage MUST be unloaded, packed in a
locked hard-sided container, and dediared to the airline at check-in. . Read our Firearms & Ammunition section No Yes Flare Guns - May be cartied as checked baggage MUST be unloaded,
packed in a locked hard-sided container, and declared to the airline at check-in. . Read our section on Camping No Gun Powder including black powder and percussion caps No Parts of Guns
and Firearms No No Yes Check with your airline or travel agent to see if firearms are permitted in checked baggage on the airline you are flying. Ask about limitations or fees, if any, that
apply.NOTE: Drills and drill bits (including cordless portable power drills) No Saws (including cordless portable power saws) No Tools (greater than seven inches in length) No Tools (seven
inches or less in length) Yes Screwdrivers (seven inches or less in length) Yes Wrenches and Pliers (seven inches or less in length) Yes Yes Any sharp objects in checked baggage should be
sheathed or securely wrapped to prevent injury to baggage handlers and Security Officers.NOTE: Martial Arts & Self Defense Items Item No Yes Mace/Pepper Spray - One 118 ml or 4 Fl. oz,
container of mace or pepper spray is permitted in checked baggage provided it is equipped with a safety mechanism to prevent accidental discharge. For more information visit , click on
Passengers, then Preparing to Fly. www.faa.gov. No No Yes Any sharp objects in checked baggage should be sheathed or securely wrapped to prevent injury to baggage handlers and
Security Officers.NOTE: Explosive & Flammable Materials, Disabling Chemicals & Other Dangerous Items Explosive Materials Aerosol (any except for personal care or toiletries in limited
quantities) No Fuels (including cooking fuels and any flammable liquid fuel) No No No - Lighters without fuel are permitted in checked baggage. Lighters with fuel are prohibited in checked
baggage, unless they adhere to the Department of Transportation (DOT) exemption, which allows up to two fueled lighters if properly enclosed in a DOT approved case. If you are uncertain as
to whether your lighter is prohibited, please leave it at home. Common Lighters Yes No Torch Lighters - Torch lighters create a thin, needle-like flame that is hotter (reaching 2,500 degrees
Fahrenheit) and more intense than those from common lighters. Torch lighters are often used for pipes and cigars, and maintain a consistent stream of air-propelled fire regardless of the angle
at which it is held. Torch lighters continue to be banned. No No Strike-anywhere Matches - book of safety (non-strike anywhere) matches are permitted as carry-on items, but all matches are
prohibited in checked baggage.One No Flammable Paints (See Other Items below for non-flammable paints) No