AmericaLIs Hottest Summer Fairs and Festivals posted in: | posted by: on August 6, 2008 | North America Jennifer Gregory 1 Comment Believe it or not, theres only a month left of the
official summer holiday. It seems as though, as summer winds down and the call of the beach is less alluring, there are fewer and fewer activities available to keep both children and adults
occupied. Just in the nick of time, however, the summer fairs begin rolling into town - aiming to please and entertain the masses! American summer fairs are a tradition like no other. Found all
over the country, in more counties than we can count, fairs feature amusement rides, games, competitions, and enough food to prove that your eyes really are bigger than your stomach.

Some travel from city to city, while others are hosted in the same place annually - always bringing the fun to you without the aggravation of a long car ride or the expensive admission fees
normally associated with amusement parks. Summer fairs are an incredible destination for individuals and families alike! We're proud to share some of our favorite upcoming fairs. Blueberry
Festival The Blueberry Festival in Austerlitz, New York is entering its 9 year. Held on July 29, you'll find yourself surrounded by everything blueberry, and then some! Taste blueberry muffins,
pancakes, jams, and pies or enter your favorite creation into the Blueberry Recipe Contest.thth Kalamazoo County Fair The will be held on from August 4 through August 9 in Kalamazoo,
Michigan! This year the fair features a talent contest, bee keeping classes, chainsaw carvers, and plenty of childrens activities. The 2008 fair will include the first ever Kalamazoo County Fair
Queen Pageant - an event you won't want to miss! Kalamazoo County Fair thth The Washington Town and Country Fair Located an hour outside of St. Louis, the Washington Town and Country
Fair in Washington is amongst the largest summer festivals held in the state of Missouri. Held from August 5 through 10, tradition will carry on this year with livestock shows, horticulture
displays, and even motor sport events. Watch out for performances by Huey Lewis and the News and other great names while you're there, too!thth Pennsylvania Renaissance Faire The is one
of the largest fairs held in Pennsylvania on an annual basis. This years festival will run every weekend from August 9 through October 26, featuring different weekly themes, majestic
entertainment, and traditional faire food and brew. This year the faire has added some special events, including a Royal Feaste and Tea with the Queen! Pennsylvania Renaissance Faire thth
The Armada Fair The Armada Fair will be held in Armada, Michigan from August 12 through August 17. They bill themselves as the best little country fair in Michigan, and they might just be
right. A visit to this fair will include entertainment by rodeo shows, derby's, and even truck/tractor pulls!thth Dutchess County Fair Believe it or not, there is more to New York State than the
city itself, The Dutchess County Fair in Rhinebeck runs from August 19 through August 24. The county fair features traditional amusement attractions while at the same time showcasing their
agriculture. Stop by for pony rides, to watch a cow being milked, or to learn how wool is dyed and weavedithth Rocky Mountain Balloon Festival The Rocky Mountain Balloon Festival can be
found in Chatfield State Park in Littleton, Colorado from August 22 through August 24. The festival includes an incredible powered paraglider fiy-over, a car show, plenty of live music and, of
course, hot air balloon shows and rides! If you are visiting Colorado from out of town you'll want to try to find so you can stop to see the balloons on your way through!ndth discount hotels in
Littleton Train Festival at the Depot The Train Festival at the Depot will be held at the Depot Conference Center in Columbus, Ohio on August 23 and 24. Explore one of 1880's restored train
stations, walk through a vintage caboose from 1909, or browse the exhibit hall to see some of the finest model railroads and memorabilia there is'rdth The 10 Annual Greek Festth In Los
Angeles California you can wrap up the summer with the 10 Annual Greek Fest, held from September 5 through September 7. If you love Greek culture, authentic foods, incredible music, and
traditional dancing, this fair is for you! Enjoy a cup of Greek coffee while you browse, and keep an eye open for celebrities while you're there!ththth The Chesapeake Celtic Festival Following
closely on the heels of summer is the Chesapeake Celtic Festival, to be held on October 4 and 5 in Snow Hill, Maryland. Here you'll enjoy traditional Irish bagpipe concerts, Celtic music,
dancing, and the Pub Tent, amongst other features. This year the book , detailing the life of Saint Patrick, will be released in time for the festival! Reserve your early to ensure you have a place
to stay thats not too far from the action. ththSaints Preserve Us Ocean City hotel Regardless of the fair you choose to visit, you'll find yourself amazed and entertained by all that each has to
offer. When the beach grows old, pack the kids in the car and head towards the nearest fair. Have fun creating memories!