Industry Moves: Scripps; NBC; Stage Entertainment; ActiveVideo; Hunch; IB - Tue 05 Aug 2008 02:54 PM PSTBy Amanda Natividad : Scripps () Networks president John Lansing has been
named EVP of its parent company, Scripps Networks Interactive. Previously SVP of the company, Lansing will continue to be responsible for leading Lifestyle Medias operating segment in his
dual roles. Before joining Scripps corporate office 13 years ago, he worked with the broadcast TV station. Last week, Jen Goforth was upped to SVP of SN Digital operations from her post as VP
of online production, reporting to Deanna Brown, president of SN Digital. Goforth has held various positions with Scripps interactive division and early worked as a media writer. .Scripps
Networks Interactive NYSE: SSP Release : NBC Local Media announced two promotions within its sales team, naming Shawn Makhijani as VP-corporate business development and Mark
Yackanich as VP-corporate strategy. They will both report to Frank Comerford, president, platform development and commercial operations and work across all business units, including TV
stations and the digital group. Makhijani joined NBC 15 years ago and Yackanich most recently lead business operations for the Hulu launch.NBC : Former Clearstone Venture Partners VP Phil
Ressler has joined as its president and CEO. He succeeds former president Chuck Huebner, who will continue as a special advisor to the company. Before his tenure at Clearstone, Ressler served
in various exec positions at Xdrive, Callidus Software, inquiry.com, among others. .Stage Entertainment Release ...More after the jump : John Callahan has joined the company as its CTO.
He was previously with Time Wamer () Cable for 15 years, where he helped lead on-demand and interactive applications.ActiveVideo NYSE: TWX Release. : Flickr co-founder Caterina Fake
has joined consumer internet application Hunch as its chief product officer, board member, and resident Facebook app skeptic, she writes . Fake in June, a few years after the company
acquired Flickr. Hunch in her blog left Yahoo months : IB has appointed former Brightcove exec Libby Freligh as VP of product marketing. She will oversee marketing and product development
and report to Jeff Kimball, the companys COO. While at Brightcove, Freligh built the companys account and launch management functions. Internet Broadcasting