By Brad Stone Screen shot from Current.com Like many others in the San Francisco technology world, I have a hard time understanding my cable TV neighbor, , whose chairman and primary
backer is former Vice President Al Gore. Current TV The two-and-a-half year-old network offers aspiring filmmakers and documentarians the opportunity to submit short clips and get them
onto television. It also produces its own material, on everything from Nazi skinheads to the extinction of freshwater dolphins in China, and combines it all in a sort of free-wheeling,
round-the-clock news mashup. When the network launched in April of 2005, . Television matters less and less to this new generation of young filmmakers empowered with cheap digital video
cameras and simple editing software. Instead, they can post their stuff online, where everything reaches the air (so to speak) and anything, even material with limited appeal, can find an
audience. I was skeptical Current had the right idea, but the wrong medium, Six months after the network launched, , making many of the same observations about the coming wave of
user-generated content, was streaking toward stardom and Google riches. YouTube Still, more than two years later, Current has notched some success. Though it chooses to remain unrated by
Nielsen, the network is now accessible in 50 million homes and, executives say, the company is profitable. Last month, Current for interactive TV. Today, it introduces a new Web site, at . won
an Emmy Current.com Current.com is what the network should have done all along. Users can submit their videos to the site, leave comments and vote on the videos they like, perhaps
propelling them onto television (Current pays contributors whose work it airs). The new site creates some interesting synergies between the network and its audience. CurrentCls producers
can mine the community for participation in their stories. Check out , for example, by a producer asking viewers for ideas about an upcoming story on Adderall addictions. Viewers can also try
their hands at making commercials for CurrentUs advertisers. These , as Current calls them, are surprisingly fun, and sometimes make it on the air. this post V-cams Joel Hyatt, CurrentCs
chief executive, says the network was working towards building a community-oriented Web site all along. Our goal was never to be the last successful example of the last business model, he
said. Mr. Hyatt sees an opportunity in marrying traditional media model with the user-empowering openness of the Web. For the first time, we have two screens that are mutually reinforcing
and mutually enriching. ItCis a neat site, but ID still not convinced that television 1 and Current in particular, with its spot in the ozone layer of most channel listings 1] matters enough to
the young people Current wants to target. And YouTube and exert what appears to be a stranglehold on the attentions of young video creators. MySpaceTV That said, the site has some
innovations I have not seen anywhere else, such as this of what is currently on Current. nifty presentation