CONTACT US Types of spa There are many different types of spas, including day spas, urban spas, weekend spas, desination spas, hotel spas and spa resorts. Spavenues.co.uk shows you the
difference between them and which one will best suit your spa expectations. Day spas Day spas offer all the facilities and services of a health spa or hotel spa without any residential
accommodation. The best way to taste the benefits of spa treatments without spending a big budget on a spa break with accommodation. Find day spas by county Destination spas As the
name suggests, a desination spa is a spa which offers residential accommodation services for guests. A destination spa, also traditionally known as a health spa, offers a two, three or more
night stay, allowing guests to access the full benefits of a total spa experience. Find desination spas by county Hotel spas Hotel spas are usually a luxury spa venue based in a hotel. A hotel
spa differs from a destination spa in the fact that spa treatments in a hotel are bought in an a la carte manner; you simply purchase the spa or beauty treatments that take your fancy while
staying at the hotel. Find hotel spas by county Resort spas Like many spa venues, there is some overlap between a spa resort, a hotel spa and a destination spa. As with a destination spa
experience a spa resort will offer guests on site residential accommodation. And as with a hotel spa experience spa treatments at a spa resort can be bought in an a la carte manner. This
means guests can purchase a personalised spa experience based on the services and treatments in which they'd like to induldge. Find resort spas by county Urban spas Urban spas are
found in inner city areas like London an Manchester. Urban spa venues often offer the same services as a destination or hotel spa. However, due to their location urban spas are often used in
the same manner as a day spa - 2 quick in/out spa and beauty treatment facility. Find urban spas by county Weekend spa breaks As the name suggests a weekend spa usually offers a two
or three day spa experience spanning from Friday evening to Sunday. Weekend spa breaks are typically designed to be as relaxing and revitalising as possible - the idea being that a mini break
at a weekend spa venue can feel like a two week holiday.