Tax deferred vs. non tax deferred Variable Annuity Fees Click Here for Instant Variable Annuity Quotes Surrender Charge Variable Annuity Fees Usually, if you withdraw money from a variable
annuity in a specified timeline after buying a variable annuity, the insurance company usually charges a surrender charge that will be a percentage of the your capital to the account or account
value. This surrender charge is not the same the addition to the 10% penalty tax that the IRS may charge for taking untaxed money from a variable annuity prior to being 59 afracl2;. The
amount of this surrender charge can vary, depending upon the time you have owned the variable annuity. The surrender charge will drop over the course of the surrender period which can run
for five to fifteen years, generally. In some cases, insurance companies calculate surrender charges in a different way, with a new contribution starting a new surrender period for that variable
annuity contribution, when a fixed percentage surrender charge is charged for that amount. Some variable annuity fee contracts may let you take out a certain percentage of the account value
every year without a surrender charge. This is called a free corridor rider. As with all variable annuity fees, it is important to comparison shop for variable annuities about when you can access
your account in a variable annuity and exactly what surrender charges will apply. This allows you to assess the surrender charge variable annuity fees. Mortality and Expense Risk Charge
Variable Annuity Fees This variable annuity fee expense is equal to a certain percentage of your variable account value, typically around 1.25% per year. The current average Mortality and
Expense charge is about 1.2%. This charge allows the insurance company to guarantee the variable annuity purchase rates. Account Maintenance Variable Annuity Fees This will be an variable
annuity annual fee of about $25-$35. This help defray the expense of the variable annuity company managing the account. The account maintenance fee is usually waived for account balances
above a certain level. The current average Administrative Fee is about 0.18% More Variable Annuity Fees Other Fund Fees With most variable annuity, you will also pay the fees and expenses
charged by the mutual funds that are the your investment options within the Variable Account of the variable annuity. These mutual fund fees go towards paying the mutual fund company that
is investing the fund's investments. Current average mutual fund expenseis about 0.75%. Fees for Optional Features Fees for different optional options differ according to the variable annuity
insurance company issuing the variable annuity. These are some other selected average fees for popular variable annuity fee add-ons For the Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit, an average
fee of 0.5%. For the Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit, an average fee of 0.4%. For the Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit, an average fee of 0.45%. Variable annuities can
be a great retirement investment vehicle. However, variable annuities may not be right for everyone. It is important to make sure to review your options carefully, because variable annuities
are long-term investments and insurance companies tend to charge hefty penalties for early withdrawals. First, use a service to have them shop around to find you the best rates on variable
annuities. , they will give free instant variable annuity quotes. Examine these variable annuity quotes and then sit down with your financial advisor or accountant to come up with a retirement
plan that is best for you. I recommend this website Good luck! Variable Annuity Fees- Other Articles If you liked this article and would like to read more articles by this author: