info@americanhistoryworkshop.com is a consortium of historians, writers, designers, and filmmakers who enliven public understanding of our people's history, producing public programs to
connect Americans with their past. Their clients include museums, historical societies, historic districts, parks and gardens, filmmakers, public agencies, businesses, citizens groups, television
stations, and others involved in interpreting history. One of their aims is to find the forgotten voices in the American past, and to show that life in the most ordinary circumstances and the most
local places can be connected to the larger stories of the American people.American History Workshop E-mail: website@buffalonet.org is a not-for-profit internet site dedicated to preserving
Buffalo and Western New York(s heritage. Individuals who want to contribute material or take on design responsibilities for an area of this site are encouraged to e-mail the site. Links at this
growing site include: ., several sites devoted to the cityOs history, History of Brewing in Buffalo, BuffaloXs Subway System, Genesee & Wyoming County New York Off-Beat History, and
Replicas of Vintage Railroad and Automotive Equipment. BuffaloNet Buffalo Folklore Etc The Buffalonian Steve R. Powell, Editor and Publisher is a news and multimedia on-line historical
archive for western New York and the Niagara region. Published by the Peoples History Coalition of Buffalo, a non-profit organization dedicated to the dissemination of historical information
through the creation of an on-line community and archive, this site includes historical news articles, photographs, diary excerpts, and histories of western New York. The site develops and
republishes accounts of local history and invites submissions to the site. Historians and genealogical researchers are offered a free web page to publish their research. Web visitors can also join
a western New York discussion group at this site or visit the on-line store to purchase books and photographs.The Buffalonian Central New York Library Resources Council 6493 Ridings Road
Syracuse, NY 13206 315/446-5446 Fax 315/446-5590 familiarly known as CLRC, was formed in 1967 as one of nine Reference and Research Library Resources councils ("3Rs") in New York
State. CLRC serves libraries and library systems in four Central New York counties: Herkimer, Madison, Oneida, and Onondaga. CLRC assists libraries schools and museums in these counties to
provide digital access to unique local resources. Regional Automation and Library Services and Technology grants administered through CLRC provided funding for digitizing and web access to
many of the collections and images. Information about the is available at this site, as well as CLRC/DHP publications such asThe Central New York Library Resources Council, regional
Documentary Heritage Program . Documenting Family History