Frequently Asked Questions Not only do we teach how to drive but how to be a safe driver too. Our instructors are highly trained , Q: Why should I choose Virginia Driving School? A:
friendly, punctual, mature, responsible, and are able to inspire confidence in their students. We are committed to let out the first class drivers. back to top] Q: Can you tell me a little
about y our B-T-W course? A: There are 7 driving sessions. Each session is one hour and forty minutes long, 50 minutes of driving and 50 minutes of observation. Registration for any course
is quite simple. You can click and be taken to the registration page. Just complete all the appropriate fields and submit the form. Once we receive your information, wel send you an e-mail
within 24 hours confirming your registration. You may also call us at 703-367-0911, 703-368-5568, 540-341-8881 or 571-237-9483 during normal business hours to register over the phone
back to top] Q: How do I register for the course? A: here There is no waiting list. New classes begin every Saturday. All we need is four days advance registration. back to top] Q: How long
is the waiting list for B-T-W Course? A: We serve Prince william County, Fauquier, Culpeper, Stafford, Fredericksburg, Front Royal & Centerville. back to top] Q: What areas do you serve? A:
@ It takes about eighteen days to complete B-T-W course. 3 lessons per week. In Summer, it can take up to 4 weeks to complete Behind-The-Wheel Course. back to top] Q: How long will it
take me to complete behind-the-wheel course? you can pay when instructor picks you up. back to top] Q: How do I pay for the course? A: Check, Cash or Money Order. back to top]
 Q: What form of payment do you accept? A: Prince William $260; Fauquier & F.Fax $275; Stafford / Fredericksburg $310; Front Royal $350. back to top] _Q: What is the cost of
behind-the-wheel course for teen? A: Yes. In some cities, You can complete the course within 8 days for extra $50 premium. back to top] Q: Is it possible to complete behind-the-wheel
course within a week? A: Yes. You can enroll in the course. But when you complete the course, we will post date the validation of your license. back to top] Q: How about if I am not 16
and 3 months old and haven held my learners permit for nine months. Can I still take the course? A: Q: I am 18 years old; do I still have to hold my learner's permit for nine months? A: A
note from your parents stating that youe driven forty five hours will be ok. back to top] Q: I have driven forty hours but didn keep a log. Can my parents write a note? A: After successfully
completing the course, youl be issued 180 day temporary license. You will receive a notice to appear in court within three months to get your license from the judge. back to top] Q: What
happens after I complete the course? A: Yes, you can. There is a $35 re-testing fee. back to top] Q: What if I fail my final test. Can Iretake it? A: Yes. We try our best to work around
your schedule. back to top] Q: I have a job after school. Can you work around my schedule? A: No. Once you start, your instructor will call you a day in advance with your lesson time.
back to top] Q: Do I have to call every time to schedule my driving lessons? A: Yes. There is a $30 charge. You have to notify the school at least 12 hours in advance. back to top] Q: Is
there any charge if I miss my B-T-W appointment? A: No. You can begin with no experience, But we won be able to test you unless you have done your forty hours. back to top] Q: Do I
have to have 40 hours of driving practice with my parents before I can enroll in your program? @: back to top] Q: How long are the driving sessions? Each driving session is about one hour
and forty minutes long. Fifty minutes of driving and fifty minutes of observation.A: Yes. Pick-up is free from home or school in Prince William county, some parts of Fauquier, Stafford,
culpeper, Front Royal area. back to top] Q: Do you provide free pick-up? A: Q: I work after school. Can I drive on weekends only? A: Yes, you can. But it is going to take you longer to
complete the course. We serve Prince William, Stafford, Fauquier, Culpeper, Fairfax and Warren counties. FreePick-Up for B-T-W! Virginia Driving School provides free pick-up from home or
school in Prince William county, Warrenton, Culpeper, Stafford, Front Royal & Centerville area. Factors Leading to Aggressive Driving / Road Rage Did You Know ? In the past 30 years in the
US: population has increased 30 % number of licensed vehicles has increased 87 % vehicle miles traveled increased 130 % highway capacity has only increased 5 % Remember you control
traffic, only your reaction to it !can not When you Drive Drunk in Australia The names of the drivers are sent to the local newspapers, and printed under the heading " He's Drunk and in
Jail", Malaysia The driver is jailed and if married, his wife is jailed too. Turkey Drunk drivers are taken 20 miles outside of town by police, and are forced to walk back under escort. Russia