<< Back to Education Home Celebrate Lincoln 200th birthday with your students! Join the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in celebrating the 200th birthday of our sixteenth
president on February 12, 2009 and throughout the bicentennial year. Keep informed via email updates by registering . A visit to the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum|
addresses several of the Illinois State Learning Standards. School tours scheduled through the Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau receive FREE admission. Please visit our page where
you will find all the information necessary to make your trip a success. Students become historians with the ALPLM Classroom Connections Program, which offers structured research
opportunities using primary documents from the Library collections. The FREE program includes a self-guided tour of the Presidential Museum. to learn more. Created by the Education Division
of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum this CD contains 17 lesson plans as well as dozens of digitized primary documents from the Library collections to use in your classroom.
The lessons all address National Learning Standards for social studies. In addition, they meet teachersneeds for integrated curriculum by combining social studies topics with Language Arts,
Reading, Writing, Fine Arts and even, Mathematics, Geography, and Science. Worksheets, historical background articles and an extensive bibliography are included. To obtain a FREE copy of this
CD, email: Created by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum Education Division and targeted to grades 5-8, these four contained units of study explore the life and legacy of
Abraham Lincoln through reproduction primary documents, images and artifacts. The four kits include: School Tours and School Programs Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.
Funded by a grant from the Illinois State Library, a Division of the Office of Secretary of State, using funds provided by the Institute of Museum and Library services, under the federal Library
Services and Technology Act (LSTA). Lincoln Legacy Learning Kits Abraham Lincoln Biography Reading Kit Mary Todd Lincoln Kit Civil War Soldiers Kit Slavery in Illinois Kit The kits can be
checked out FREE OF CHARGE from any public library in Illinois through the state-wide inter-library loan system. for more information. incoln: His Life and Legendsis a colorful four-poster series
exploring Lincoln time in Illinoisis education, his humble beginnings at New Salem, his various jobs and rise as a lawyer and politician. With detailed and vibrant paintings from the collections of
the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum, these posters vividly examine Illinoisplace in the sixteenth president remarkable life. On the reverse of each poster teachers will find
resources, lesson plans and activities to enhance their use of the posters in their classroom. To obtain your FREE set of this poster series contact Free to all teachers of Illinois history, this
publication from the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency includes co-authored essays and classroom activities for grades 6-12 on selected Illinois history topics. A special Lincoln edition is
forthcoming in 2009. To receive or for more information please contact the Office of Education Services at (217) 785-6916, or the department. For past issues of the Illinois History Teacher visit

Find teaching resources for grades K-12, such as lesson plans, reading lists, interactive games, timelines, and teacher workshop/professional development opportunities. Published quarterly,
the magazine provides teachers with informative articles, lesson plans with reproducible handouts, guides to internet resources, and current historiography. Each issue focuses on a theme or
topic of recent scholarship in American history. Lincoln related issues include: / 4 October 2007 / 1 January 2007 and an upcoming Lincoln edition in January 2009. Available in print with a
subscription or as a PDF to OAH members. Selected articles are also available online. Mark the 145 anniversary of one of the most famous speeches in world history by taking part in a
simultaneous reading of the Gettysburg Address by school children on Lincoln 200th birthday, February 12, 2009. The live reading will originate at 9:30 a.m. from the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Illinois and be carried on a live webcast. Commemorative posters of the Gettysburg Address, classroom materials, and can be found online at
www.PresidentLincon.org. Eleven year old Grace Bedell wrote to President-elect Lincoln in 1860 urging him to grow a beard to improve his appearance. One month after receiving her letter,
Lincoln had grown his trademark whiskers. Your students can send Lincoln a letter as well to celebrate his 200th birthday. Be creative! Tell us why Lincoln matters and what his legacy means
today. One lucky card will be placed into a time capsule to be opened in the year 2109. Sponsored by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. Send all letters and cards to: Abraham Lincoln Old
State Capitol 1 Old State Capitol Plaza Springfield IL 62701-1507 The Illinois History Fair, sponsored by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, is an education program that offers students
four different project categories to enter research projects on state and local history. Special awards for students are presented at both the regional fairs and the Illinois History Expo. Students
may also research history fair topics for National History Day in College Park, Maryland. Visit for more information. Be recognized by the National Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission for
activities your school is planning to mark the bicentennial. Participating schools will receive a certificate and will be listed on the ALBC website in a national register. Visit for more information,
Join a live webcast for grades 6-12 that will link students across the country in an exploration of Lincoln thoughts, ideals and legacy. Through an engaging interactive presentation, students will
explore what made Abraham Lincoln the man he was, examine Lincoln legacy, and explore what his legacy means today. Visit for more information. Students are asked to submit essays
honoring someone in their life who inspires them like Lincoln. Winners will receive a trip to Chicago and Springfield in Summer 2009 to celebrate the Lincoln Bicentennial and see the historic
Lincoln legacy sites, including the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. Deadline extended to March 1, 2009. For details go to: . Visit the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and
Museum for family fun and crafts as you celebrate the birthday of our beloved president, Abraham Lincoln. Activities from 10:00-2:00 p.m. to be held in the Museum include making a birthday
card for Mr. Lincoln. The first 200 children to visit Mrs. Lincoln Attic receive a chocolate penny. Coinciding with the Lincoln Bicentennial observance, this hilarious and haunting production is an
authentic staging of the hit 19th Century comedy about a staid British family whose lives are turned upside down by the arrival of a boorish American relative. The play assumed its place in
American history when it was performed at Ford Theater in Washington, D.C. in April of 1865, with President Lincoln in the audience. This Springfield Theater Center production will recreate
that pivotal union of theatre and history. On February 11, 1861, President-Elect Lincoln bade farewell to the citizens of Springfield as he embarked for Washington, D.C. Springfield students and
the public will welcome Mr. Lincoln in to the Prairie Capitol Convention Center and be taken back in time to Mr. Lincoln's departure with stories from Lincoln's neighbors, friends and children. The
10:30 a.m. program is open and free to the public. For more information contact: Illinois Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission at or 217-558-9025. The Illinois Symphony performs on the
eve of Abraham Lincoln's 200th birthday at the Prairie Capitol Convention Center in Springfield. Performance time is 7:30 p.m. For more information contact: Illinois Abraham Lincoln
Bicentennial Commission at or 217-558-9025. Throughout the day, uniformed Ranger Talks and Living History Programs will be offered at a variety of locations within the Lincoln Home National
Historic Site, the Old State Capitol and other historic sites. For more information visit the Lincoln Home website at: February 12, 2009 A live reading of the Gettysburg Address will originate at
9:30 a.m. from the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Illinois and be carried on a live webcast. All school children who are in school that day are invited to join in
and read aloud at the same time. Commemorative posters of the Gettysburg Address, classroom materials, and can be found online at www.PresidentLincoln.org. Abraham Lincoln talks to
children about the importance of reading, telling them how stories that he read as a child inspired him. The program is scheduled for 9:30 - 10:30 a.m, on February 12 at the Lincoln Home
National Historic Site. Many well known Lincoln authors will be in Springfield on Lincoln's 200th birthday. They will participate in book signings, panel discussions and programs. Daniel Epstein,
Karen Winnick, Michael Burlingame, David Contosta, Daniel Howe, Elizabeth Varon and others will be celebrating the Bicentennial in Springfield. More information forthcoming. A Once In A
Lifetime Celebration! Abraham Lincoln's 200th Birthday Party on the evening of February 12, 2009 in the Grand Ballroom of the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Springfield. Sponsored by the Abraham
Lincoln Association and the Illinois Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. For further information and ticket information: or . Lincoln and Leadership Program with Fritz Klein as Abraham.
Lincoln, The program runs from 9:00 a.m. to Noon at Lincoln Home National Historic Site, Springfield. The program is free and open to the public. A Discussion with Abraham Lincoln, Frederick
Douglas, Harriet Tubman and Martin Luther King, Part I. The program will be at the Lincoln Home National Historic Site from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Abraham Lincoln: A Biography in Words and
Music features Lincoln and another historic character talking about Lincoln's life and includes related period musical performances by a choral group. This evening performance will be held at
Lincoln Home National Historic Site Visitor Center, Theatre 1. Further information will be available on this calendar. Annual commemoration of the Sixteenth President's death anniversary at the
Abraham Lincoln Tomb State Historic Site by the Lincoln Deathday Association. Ceremony of tribute begins at 11:00 a.m. with opening remarks that will be followed by the presentation of
memorial wreaths on behalf of fraternal, hereditary, and veterans organizations. A commemorative luncheon with a speaker will follow at the President Abraham Lincoln Hotel. Reservations are
required for the luncheon. Contact Info: Jon Austin, 217-544-3480 The annual Conference on Illinois History is scheduled for October 30 and 31 at the Prairie Capital Convention Center in
downtown Springfield and is the state largest meeting devoted to the history of the Prairie State. This is the ninth year of the conference, which is sponsored by the Illinois Historic Preservation
Agency. The conference will feature topics that include politics, geography, community studies, Abraham Lincoln, African American history, and the Civil War. Teachers will benefit from
workshops on a variety of topics will be offered. All teacher workshop sessions are approved for Continuing Professional Development Units (CPDUs). For additional information, contact contact
Donna Lawrence, IPA, 1 Old State Capitol Plaza, Springfield, IL 62701, by email at , or phone 217/785-7933. in PDF format. The Painter Lectures are a regular February 12 offering at Lincoln
Home. This year the lectures will include prominent Lincoln authors in Springfield for Lincoln's 200th birthday celebrations. The lectures will run from 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. on February 12 at the
Lincoln Home National Historic Site Visitor Center, Theatre 1. www.nps.gov/liho Spend a week studying the life of Abraham Lincoln at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.
Horace Mann Educators and the Library and Museum have paired up to offer this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to any full-time teacher of Kindergarten through 12th grade of any discipline in
the U.S. The Fellowship features a five-day Institute in June and July 2009 at the ALPLM in Springfield, Illinois and it includes round-trip transportation, lodging and most meals. Winning Fellows
will attend the Institute during the following dates: June 21-27, 2009 (25 Fellows); July 12-18, 2009 (25 Fellows). For more information and to apply, visit: Application Deadline: February 12,
2009 To celebrate the anniversary of the Gettysburg Address the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library will exhibit the original art created for the book, The Gettysburg Address, illustrated by
master calligrapher and artist Sam Fink. It may be seen at the library through mid January 2009. Admission to the exhibition is free. . Lincoln in Illinois is a photographic show using images
from the book project of the same name. All Abraham Lincoln statues in Illinois both traditional and non-commercial "Lincolns" are the subjects. The companion book will present these Black &
White photographs each with a 200 word essay on a Lincoln topic from Lincoln scholars and selected authors. Admission is free. . Don Pollack created the Lincoln Project as a series of
contemporary paintings exploring the nature of history and representation. By highlighting the life of Abraham Lincoln, the project seeks to have a conversation with painting, photography,
history, and art history and includes painted landscapes, portraits, maps, and documents. Pollack is interested in how the processes of photography and painting affects the recording of history
and impacts our personal and collective memory. Traditional art style categories have been reinterpreted in the Lincoln Project in an attempt to reveal the complexity of representation and
portray a personal narrative of the 16th President. Lesson Plans and Educator Resources Calendar of Events for Illinois Home page with access to Illinois Historic Sites Search ALPL Collections!
Find Illinois newspapers! Transcripts of most known Lincoln documents Find original Lincoln documents from ALPLM collections 20,000 primary documents related to Lincoln Lincoln's Life Day by
Day Created by historians at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. Includes young readers section. Lincoln Bibliography for Young Readers Written by and for students in
grades 6 through 12, this magazine is downloadable in .pdf format. Each issue is thematically based and includes original essays by students. Click here Funded by a grant from the Illinois
State Library, a Division of the Office of Secretary of State, using funds provided by the Institute of Museum and Library services, under the federal Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA)
Poster Series Funded by a grant from the Illinois State Library, a Division of the Office of Secretary of State, using funds provided by the Institute of Museum and Library services, under the
federal Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA). Illinois History Teacher Illinois History Teacher Email http://www.illinoishistory. gov/illinoishistoryteacher.htm National Abraham Lincoln
Bicentennial Commission Resources