Welcome to Earth and Moon Viewer. Viewing the Earth You can view either a showing the day and night regions at this moment, or view the Earth from the , the , the of the Earth, above any
location on the planet specified by , from a, or above around the globe. map of the Earth Sun Moon night side latitude, longitude and altitude satellite in Earth orbit various cities Images can
be generated based on a full-colour by day and night, a of the Earth, up-to-date , or a of cloud cover superimposed on a map of the Earth, a which shows clouds, land and sea temperatures,
and ice, or the global distribution of . allows you additional control over the generation of the image. You can compose a with frequently-used parameters and save it as a hotlist or bookmark
item in your browser. Please consult the for additional information and answers to frequently-asked questions. image of the Earth topographical map weather satellite imagery composite image
colour composite water vapour Expert mode custom request Details Viewing the Moon In addition to the Earth, you can also view the Moon from the , , , above on the lunar surface. or as a
You can also make and images of the Moon. A related document compares the appearance of the Moon , including an interactive . Earth Sun night side named formations map showing day and
night expert custom at petigee and apogee Perigee and Apogee Calculator Browser Requirements To use the Earth and Moon Viewer, you need a graphical Web browser with forms support and
the ability to display GIF and JPEG images. In order to pan around the map or globe by clicking within the image, your browser must support "Client-Side Image Maps"if you don't know what
this means, don't worry: if your browser doesn't support the feature, you'll see a page which explains how to proceed. The Earth and Moon Viewer would have been enormously more difficult
to implement without the help of the software and imagery mentioned in the . credits Related Software on this Site Windows users can create images like this in real time, on their own
machines, as well as view the sky, stars at the horizon, the solar system, orbits of asteroids and comets, and more with , my public domain Earth/Space/Sky simulator available for your
pleasure. Other public domain astronomy and space software available from the same site includes: Home Planet downloading On the Web: