[] edit Background: From Indo-European to Nostratic This section needs additional for . citations verification Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed. improve this
article reliable references challenged (December 2008) The concept of Nostratic can be best understood in the context of the discovery of the Indo-European family of languages and the
methods developed in its investigation. When first suggested the Indo-European hypothesis in 1786, he backed up his idea with a systematic examination of what could be termed
"phono-semantic sets" words which, in different languages, have both similar sounds and similar meanings. Jones essentially argued that too many of these sets occurred for mere coincidence
to explain their existence, laying particular emphasis on the resemblance between patterns: and . He proposed that the languages in question must have stemmed from a single language at
some time in the past, and that they had diverged from one another due to geographical separation and the passage of time. The idea of a "root language" thus took hold, a concept to which
the evolution of the from offered itself as a clear parallel. Sir William Jones morphological declensions conjugations Romance languages Latin A second major concept to keep in mind involves
the argument, starting with , that languages do not evolve in a haphazard manner, but rather according to certain rules. Using these rules, one could theoretically run the evolutionary process
backwards and reconstruct the root language. Comparative linguists have done this, producing parts of the hypothetical language, named . Jacob Grimm Proto-Indo-European A third concept
suggests that, by examining the words in the Proto-Indo-European language, one can determine some things about the time and place of the . Words for objects and concepts that were not
familiar to the speakers of Proto-Indo-European would receive essentially random names after the time when the languages began to split; only things they knew would produce
phono-semantic sets in the successor languages. Proto-Indo-European features many words relating to animal husbandry, agriculture, and plains-like landscapes. From this, scholars have
plausibly argued that Proto-Indo-European existed as a living language some time between 6000 BC and 4000 BC in the plains to the north of the . (As a measure of the difficulty of this task,
some argue that the reconstructed vocabulary of Proto-Indo-European, together with other known information about migrations, indicates a northern landscape, although this area notably lacks
flat ground.) Proto-Indo-Europeans [] citation needed Black Sea Anatolian Altogether, the Indo-European hypothesis has proven wildly successful, and naturally linguists have tried to apply the
same general theory to a wide variety of other languages. Many languages have been shown to be related to other languages, forming large families similar to Indo-European. On the face of it,
it is logical that the family tree could converge further, and that some or all language families could be related to one another. [] edit Origin of the Nostratic hypothesis The last quarter of the
19th century saw various linguists putting forward proposals linking the to other language families, such as and . Indo-European languages Finno-Ugric Altaic [6] These proposals were taken
much farther in 1903 when , a major Danish linguist, proposed "Nostratic", a common ancestor for the, ,,,,,,, , and languages, with the door left open to the eventual inclusion of others
Holger Pedersen Indo-European Finno-Ugric Samoyed Turkish Mongolian Manchu Yukaghir Eskimo Semitic Hamitic The name derives from the word , meaning our fellow-countryman (plural:
). Some linguists who broadly accept the concept have criticised the name as reflecting the frequent among Europeans at the time. Even so, it arguably transcends these associations. Proposed
alternative names such as , formed from the characteristic Nostratic first- and second-person pronouns 'T' and 'you', have not attained the same currency.Nostratic Latin nostrasnostrates
ethnocentrism [7] Mitianmiti [8] An early supporter was the French linguist Albert Cuny better known for his role in the development of the who published his (Researches on the Vocalism,
Consonantism, and Formation of Roots in "Nostratic", Ancestor of Indo-European and Hamito-Semitic) in 1943. Although Cuny enjoyed a high reputation as a linguist, the work was coldly
received. laryngeal theory [9] Recherches sur le vocalisme, le consonantisme et la formation des racines en nostratique , anc tre de I'indo-europ en et du chamito-s mitique While Pedersen's
Nostratic hypothesis did not make much headway in the West, it became quite popular in what was then the . Working independently at first, and elaborated the first version of the
contemporary form of the hypothesis during the 1960s. They expanded it to include additional language families. Illich-Svitych also prepared the first dictionary of the hypothetical language.
Soviet Union Vladislav Illich-Svitych Aharon Dolgopolsky [] edit Methodology A principal source for the items in Illich-Svitych s dictionary was the earlier work of (1866 1929), an Italian
linguist who had developed a classification scheme for all the world s languages, widely reviled at the time and subsequently ignored by almost all linguists. In Trombetti s time, a widely held
view on classifying languages was that similarity in inflections is the surest proof of . In the interim, the view had taken hold that the previously used as a means of studying languages already
known to be related and without any thought of classification is the most effective means to establish genetic relationship, eventually hardening into the conviction that it is the only legitimate
means to do so. This view was basic to the outlook of the new Nostraticists. Although Illich-Svitych adopted many of Trombetti s etymologies, he sought to validate them by a systematic
comparison of the sound systems of the languages concerned. Likewise, Nostraticsts refused (and continue to refuse) to include in their schema language families for which no proto-language
has yet been reconstructed. This approach was criticized by on the ground that genetic classification is necessarily prior to linguistic reconstruction but this criticism, unlike some of Greenberg s
(see next section), has so far had no effect on Nostraticist theory and practice. Nostratic studies thus remain within the mainstream of contemporary linguistics from a methodological point of
view; it is rather the scope with which the comparative method is applied by Nostraticists that raises eyebrows. Alfredo Trombetti [10] genetic relationship comparative method [11] Joseph
Greenberg [12] [] edit Membership This section needs additional for . citations verification Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed. improve this article reliable
references challenged (December 2008) The language families proposed for inclusion in Nostratic vary, but all Nostraticists agree on a common core of language families, with differences of
opinion appearing over the inclusion of additional families. The three groups universally accepted among Nostraticists are , , and . (The validity of the Altaic family is currently in dispute but is
accepted by all Nostraticists.) Nearly all also include the and language families in Nostratic. Indo-European Uralic Altaic Dravidian Kartvelian Following Pedersen, Illich-Svitych, and Dolgopolsky,
most advocates of the theory have included , though criticisms by and others from the late 1980s onward suggested a reassessment of this position. Afro-Asiatic Joseph Greenberg A fairly
representative grouping, arranged in rough geographical order (and probable order of branching), would include: phylogenetic