Join our mailing list to receive the latest news & updates! We respect your Privacy 12 Elbow Pain Home Articles Elbow Pain Determining the exact cause of your elbow pain can be
difficult. For this reason we have provided you with a synopsis of the most common elbow problems along with the symptoms typically related to each in order to help identify the problems
source. We hope this will help guide your toward elbow joint pain relief, Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain Relief, and Tennis Elbow Relief. (Tennis Elbow) - Lateral Epicondylitis, or tennis elbow, is one of
the most common causes of elbow pain. Tennis elbow is typically characterized by pain and tenderness along the outside of the elbow joint, as well as pain while using ones wrist. Morning
stiffness is also a common complaint. The exact causes of tennis elbow are still unknown, however many believe it is often caused simply by overuse leading to the small tearing of tendons. It
most commonly occurs in people between the age of 30 and 60. This form of tendonitis is rarely seen in individuals over the age of 70. Tennis elbow relief is most often achieved through a
combination of anti-inflammatory drugs, braces, and ice. - Medial Epicondylitis, also known as golfers elbow, is similar to tennis elbow with the exception that the pain and tendemess is felt on
the inner part of the elbow joint rather than the outer. Golfers elbow is caused by overuse of the inner elbow tendons and is a specific form of tendonitis. Medial Epicondylitis is typically treated
with anti-inflammatory drugs, ice, heat and braces. Lifestyle changes are also encouraged in order to prevent continuous pain. ~ This form of Bursitis is typically characterized by swelling and
tenderness around the bony point of the elbow. Elbow Bursitis is the result of fluid collecting behind the elbow joint which is caused by blunt trauma directly to the elbow, or may simply appear
out of nowhere. The Bursitis may become infected at which time you may notice a fever, cold sweats or scrapes and cuts around the swollen area. Consult your doctor for conclusive diagnosis
and treatment options. - Tendonitis is the term used when tendons, in this case elbow tendons, become inflamed. This may happen for a variety of reasons, but typically it is due to excessive
use or degeneration accompanying the aging process. The most common forms of elbow tendonitis are bicep tendonitis characterized by pain in front of the elbow, and triceps tendonitis
characterized by pain behind the elbow. Treatment may include resting the elbow, elbow braces, or icing. - Cubital Tunnel Syndrome results from the compression of the ulner nerve which is
connected to the arm and hand. Symptoms typically include pain in the hand, little finger, ring finger, and forearm. Treatment starts by bracing the elbow (especially at night) combined with the
taking for anti-inflammatory medication. Surgery may also be necessary in some cases. Consult your doctor for proper treatment. Please consult your doctor for proper elbow joint pain relief
procedures. Further your knowledge with even more information relating to & . Lateral Epicondylitis