Posted by HR | | Preparing for a job interview Just as people go to school as preparation for a career, they also need to put effort into preparing for a job interview. Think about it for a
moment. Why do people go to school? We all know that the primary reason is basic education for personal growth and development. This is still the top reason even these days. In these
practical days however, going to school is more of a preparation for the future. A future that is envisioned to be better than their own is what parents want for their children. Getting a college
degree and landing a stable job is what they dream of. After years in college or university, you will then face the challenging real world. To find a job or to continue to the next level is a
question for future-seekers. Finding a job, especially the one you want is not that easy these days. Competition is very stiff and qualifications are demanding. Both unemployment and
underemployment are social problems greatly affecting the country. Every year, the employment world welcomes many young people hoping to have jobs. In response to this, many cities
launch job fairs almost annually with the aim of helping job seekers find the job for them. Thousands try, many get hired and others go home - still jobless. Job fairs are good venues for fresh
graduates to find their first job. For those who wish to change their current job, job fairs offer many options to choose from and try out. There are a huge number of applicants from
everywhere. How can one win the heart of his or her target company? Some say that a job fair is just a drop-your-resume and try-your-luck thing. No it is not. Be proactive and you could
introduce your self to 20 or more companies in just a couple of hours. Did you know that there is a huge chance to win a job? Yes, that is by making it big in a job fair. You can do that by
properly preparing for a job interview. The ability to make it bigger than the hundreds of other job seekers is the responsibility of every aspirant. Considering a couple of useful tips like those
that follow would help them out a lot. In a job interview, which is what a job fair is, remember these reminders. Applicants should prepare a very detailed resume since employers will base
their judgment over those pages of paper. An impressive resume is not actually the first means to make an employer be interested to your application. He or she will only be looking forward to
reading your resume if you look impressive from the very start. If you make a good impression, good things will come your way. Dress and act as a professional. You must not come in the
thickest make-up or the flashiest clothes. Answer questions sincerely and remember to relax while answering. Pay attention to the interviewer and flaunt your assets. Job Fairs may lead you to
your first or last job. Job interviews are your keys to the doors of opportunities. No Comments