The closest approach to occurred on , . Image:Uranus.jpg Uranus January 24 1986 discovered 10 previously unknown ; studied the planet's unique atmosphere, caused by its of 97.77 ; and
examined its . Voyager 2 moons axial tilt ring system []edit Neptune The closest approach to occurred on , . Since this was the last major planet could visit, it was decided to make a close
flyby of the moon , regardless of the consequences to the trajectory, as with s encounter with and its moon . This was a wise decision, as Triton tumed out to have a fascinating surface.
Image:Neptune.jpg Neptune August 25 1989 Voyager 2 Triton ' Voyager 1 Satu Titan [] edit Escaping the solar system Since its planetary mission is over, is now described as working on an
Interspace Mission, which is using to find out what the is like beyond the .Voyager 2 NASA solar system heliosphere As of , , Voyager 2 is at a distance of 75.4 and is escaping the at a speed of
about 3.3 AU per year (ca. 15.6 km/s). Although it has not yet escaped the solar system, it is believed to be on the verge of doing so. January 11 2005 AU solar system is expected to keep on
transmitting into the . Voyager 2 2030s [] edit Current Voyager 2 data processing and operations There were 41.1 hours of scheduled support for Voyager 2 of which 22.5 hours were large
aperture coverage. There were no real-time or scheduled support changes or significant outages during the period. DSN Science instrument performance was nominal for all activities during
this period. One frame of GS-4 data was recorded this week. The EDR backlog is 2 days. command operations consisted of the uplink of seven bracketed command loss timer resets sent on
five-minute centers using 1.0 Hz steps on 03/16 [DOY 075/0342z]. The spacecraft received two of the seven commands sent. Voyager 2 This information is available from:
http://voyager.jpl.nasa.gov/mission/weekly-reports/index.htm [] edit Voyager 2 in fiction and popular culture Voyager 2.This section contains specific references toFor other references to the
Voyagers, see in the Voyager program article. Voyager in fiction and popular culture : Spoiler warning Plot and/or ending details follow. The motion picture portrayed as having been located by
an alien intelligence who subsequently sent one of their own race to investigate intelligent life on Earth. Starman Voyager 2 In the episode "" of the animated show , scrubs the remains of off
the windscreen of her spaceship while refuelling at an interplanetary service station. Parasites Lost Futurama Leela Voyager 2. Spoilers end here