Color Definition The strict definition of a brass band requires that only brass instruments are included (except for the percussion section). No strings or reeds, only instruments where the
sound is produced by buzzing the lips into a cup-shaped mouthpiece. This eliminates the saxophone, which is generally constructed of brass but uses a single reed as the sound source.
Instruments Used The modern Salvation Army band is based on the English contest band. The instruments used include ,,, ,,, and.. instruments are used in most bands. comets flugelhors
horns baritones trombones euphoniums basses Percussion Ina contest band, the number of players is fixed by rule, and the compositions are tailored for that size. In Salvation Army banding,
there is no set size for a group. In fact, music for Salvation Army bands is published for groups as small as four players. In order to play the most complex Salvation Army pieces, as many as
25 players are required. An example of the distribution of instruments in a brass band is provided by listing the instruments used in the of the Salvation Army, which is based in Washington,
DC. (This list is based on the composition of the band in February, 2002.) National Capital Band 2 percussionists Voices The most basic arrangements for a band consist of four parts,
corresponding to the four basic voice parts in a choir ~ soprano, alto, tenor, and bass. Instruments Bass (Tuba) Bass These are the normal assignments. Composers frequently use the
instruments in different ways to achieve the musical effect they desire. Different combinations of instruments can make the sound remarkably different even when all of the notes are exactly
the same. One of the more extreme examples is the solo , by Stephen Bulla. In the band accompaniment, the section is not used at all. In arrangements for larger groups, special effects such
as quartets can be used. euphonium Shenandoah cornet trombone Color In a musical context, the term color refers to a quality of sound. This is most often described in terms of light:
bright sounds or dark sounds. A bright sound is clear and ringing; a dark sound is mellow and complex. In general, brass instruments are bright when compared to other orchestral
instruments. One of the limitations of an all-brass instrumentation is that the range of color is small. Within the brass instrument family, there are shades of color. Brass instruments whose bore
is mostly cylindrical, such as the , are the brightest. Mellow instruments, such as the , have a conical bore. trombone fligelhorn In the typical brass band, the and are the bright instruments.
and are the dark instruments. The other instruments (, , and ) are somewhere in between, closer to the mellow quality. comets trombones Fliigelhorn euphonium horns baritones basses
Composers employ several different methods of extending the color range of the brass band. Mutes of various types have the most pronounced effect. More subtle differences can be introduced
by the use of different keys and pitch registers. Well-trained players have some control over the brightness of the sound. Web www.brasscrest.com Copyright  1999-2008 Robert D.
Schramm Last updated 20 January 2006 12:42 www.brasscrest.com This site is NOT officially sanctioned or approved by any Salvation Army officer, center or command. Views expressed on
this site do not necessarily represent the position of the Salvation Army, and nothing on this site should be interpreted as a solicitation for contributions to any Salvation Army program. For
official information, please visit the Salvation Army website at