Chlorine is quit abundant in nature, there is more chlorine (0.19%) in the earth crust than carbon (0.08%). Almost all of that chlorine is in bounded form: salt in the oceans and in thick layers
all around the world contains sixty percent of chlorine, the rest is sodium. Huge amounts - but small concentrations - of bounded chlorine (salt and hydrochloric acid) are travelling with the
winds from sea to land. So also on land you will find chlorine everywhere in air and ground. Small parts of the hydrochloric acid are oxidised to elementary chlorine, which gives the nice looking
green roofs with copper on buildings near the sea, Most environmental groups deny or underestimate the amount of organochlorines made by nature: until now, about 1700 organochlorines are
found in or made by different species. Also , and other stuff that according to them should be banned from our earth, form as a result of natural wood fires. Sometimes the quantities are quite
high. The breakdown of wood by fungi and mushrooms uses organochlorines, which results in an amount of chlorinated residues, mainly chlorophenols. About 60% of all chemical activities uses
chlorine in either a direct or indirect way. This is not by accident, but this is because, in many cases, chlorine acts as an energy pump. It is a very reactive element, making reactions possible,
which otherwise should use more energy, more unrenewable resources, give more (dangerous) waste, more pollution, would be more unsafe for workers and/or users and give a lower quality
for a higher price. Those who want to have chlorine out of industry either don't know the consequences of what they are saying, or they know it and their aim is to go farther than the use of
chlorine: those people want all (chemical) factories closed, whether that is good for nature and/or mankind or not. In many cases, chlorine and chlorinated products can be replaced by
chlorine-free processes or chlorine-free products, sometimes this can be beneficial for the environment, but in many cases, especially for PVC, where a lot of investigations were done, known
and controlled dangers are exchanged for (un)known dangers, which can have a much higher impact on man and nature. Chlorine-free or PVC-free are not synonyms for better for the
environment! CHLORINE IN THE WORLD CHLORINE IN NATURE All life on earth started in salted oceans and still nearly all life on earth needs salt to survive. Too much salt is a deadly poison,
not enough salt is deadly too. Our blood contains salt, our stomach uses hydrochloric acid - derived from salt - for the digestion of our food. And when we are attacked by bacteria, white blood
cells produce a powerful chlorinating and oxidising agent from salt: hypochlorite to kill the invaders. NATURAL ORGANOCHLORINES dioxins PCB's The concentration of organochlorines in the
ground in forests is therefore seven times higher than what is allowed by legislation in The Netherlands! That these are entirely natural was proven by the Agricultural University of Wageningen
: With the addition of radio-labeled chlorine in salt, they found that 30-35% of the chlorophenols and 30-35% of the chlorinated dioxins was made with the radio-labeled chlorine after one

year... [78] From chlorophenols to dioxins is only a small step in nature: lots of bacteria do make hydrogen peroxide, which can do the job. The average amount of dioxins in ground of woods
is higher than that found in industrial or highly urbanised areas - except for some hot spots - and is much higher than the levels found in open fields and grassland. There is a lot of resistance
to waste incinerators. In fact, the worst of them give in the exhaust about the same amount of dioxins as what was in the input, although this will be concentrated on the nearby surroundings
A well equipped incinerator, at the contrary, reduces the amount of dioxin a hundred to a thousandfold. On the other hand, biological composting of organic garbage or sludge, triples the
amount of dioxins... In paper and cardboard, the amount of dioxins augments during their lifetime, even when these were made from 100% chlorine free manufactured pulp. In this way,
recycled paper contains tens to hundreds times more dioxins than fresh paper. CHLORINE IN INDUSTRY Chlorine is used to make more than 10,000 products, you can say that about 95% of
all what you have as consumer products is in some way made with chlorine. To give you an impression where it is used: THE USE OF CHLORINE Medicines Over 80% of all medicine and
synthetic vitamins are made by chlorine and in 30% of the medicine, chlorine is an indispensable part of it. Disinfectants Chlorine is used as a cheap, reliable disinfectant in swimming pools
and in drinking water, especially in the third world. Plastics Chlorine is used to make versatile plastics like (with a lot of uses like bloodbags, cable insulation, creditcards, leather imitation,
pipes for water and gas, windowframes, packaging for food and pharmaceuticals, impermeable linings for deposits, basements and tunnels) and , used for special packaging. PVC PVDC
Catalists Chlorine is used to make catalysts for the production of high density and linear low density polyethylene (, ) and polypropylene (). HDPE LLDPE PP Intermediate(s) Chlorine is an
intermediate in the processes to make polyurethane's ( for mattresses), polycarbonate ( for CD's, aeroplane windows and many temperature resistant kitchen utensils), carboxymethyicellulose
(used as absorbent in napkins), epoxy (paints and glues), silicones (highly resistant sealants, rubbers, lubricants), Teflon (bakery),... PU PC CMC Solvents Chlorine is used in non-flammable
solvents for degreasing and dry-cleaning. Bleaching Chlorine is/was used in the bleaching of pulp for the paper industry and cotton. Metallurgy Chlorine is used in metallurgy to make titan
(rockets), aluminium, magnesium, nickel (stainless steel) and last but not least silicon in very pure form used to make the electronic chips, which makes the Internet work! THE CHLORINE
ALTERNATIVES You are at level one of the Chlorophiles pages. Created: March 10, 1996. Last update: September 8, 1998.