[top] December For the month of December there were no tornado-related fatalities reported in the U.S. The stands at 125. January-December fatality total Tornado Fatalities Time Series
Important: The graph above-left represents the final number of tornadoes from JanuaryOctober and preliminary tornado reports from NovemberDecember 2008. Final numbers from
NovemberDecember are not yet available and may reflect a small change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of January 13, 2009. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 09
December 2008 Severe weather during the month of December was limited, but active enough to produce 50 preliminary tornadoes. The most active day was on 9th when 37 preliminary
tornadoes were reported. Most of these occurred in the deep south as a strong low pressure system dug far into the region triggering numerous thunderstorms. Some of these storms produced
tornadoes across parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. At least one injury occurred in the La Salle Parrish of Louisiana when several modular homes were completely destroyed. The
stronger tornadoes were limited to Mississippi and Alabama where several EF2 rated tornadoes were reported. These were spotted in Rankin County Mississippi and Walker County Alabama.
Tomado statistics for December 2008 have yet to be finalized. More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page [ top ] November For the month of November
there were two tornado-related fatalities reported in the U.S. The stands at 125. January-November fatality total Tornado Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left represents the
final number of tornadoes from JanuaryAugust and preliminary tornado reports from SeptemberNovember 2008. Final numbers from SeptemberNovember are not yet available and may
reflect a significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of December 9, 2008. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 14 November 2008 Preliminary 2008 tornado
related fatalities increased by two during the month of November. These occurred in North Carolina where a strong line of thunderstorms southeast of Raleigh produced five tornadoes during
the early morning hours of the 15th. These tornadoes caused significant damage to homes, trees, and roads in the area. The largest of the five tormadoes was rated an EF-3 by the National
Weather Service. Tornado statistics for November 2008 have yet to be finalized. More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page [ top] October For the
month of October there were no tornado-related fatalities reported in the U.S. The stands at 123. January-October fatality total Tornado Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left
represents the final number of tornadoes from JanuaryAugust and preliminary tornado reports from SeptemberOctober 2008. Final numbers from SeptemberOctober are not yet available
and may reflect a significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of November 4, 2008. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 08 October 2008 The month of October
was relatively quiet throughout the U.S. as only 28 preliminary reports of tornadoes were received. One of the more active days during the month was on the when 15 tornadoes were reported
across Alabama, Georgia and Florida. These tornadoes were part of a that dug into the Southeast during the first full week of the month. One of the harder hit areas was Enterprise, Alabama
where significant damage was seen. According to reports, the civic center roof was peeled off, car windows were blown out and several trees were downed. Tomado statistics for October 2008
have yet to be finalized, sth strong low pressure system More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page [ top] September For the month of September
there were two tornado-related fatalities reported in the U.S. The stands at 123. January-September fatality total Tomado Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left represents
the final number of tornadoes from JanuaryJune and preliminary tornado reports from JulySeptember 2008. Final numbers from JulySeptember are not yet available and may reflect a
significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of October 3, 2008. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 13 September 2008 The month of September brought more
severe weather to the U.S. as 133 preliminary reports of tornadoes were received. Approximately 30 tornadoes were reported across Louisiana and Mississippi on These tornadoes were
associated with Hurricane Gustav which made landfall in Louisiana on September 1. One of these tornadoes was rated an EF2 which daimed the lives of two people near Mamou, Louisiana. An
additional on the 13th and most were associated with the landfall of Hurricane Ike in Texas. Tornado statistics for September 2008 have yet to be finalized. September 2. 27 tornadoes were
reported More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page [ top] August For the month of August there were no tornado-related fatalities reported in the
U.S. The stands at 121. January-August fatality total Tornado Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left represents the final number of tornadoes from JanuaryJune and
preliminary tornado reports from JulyAugust 2008. Final numbers from July and August are not yet available and may reflect a significant change, as represented by the etror-bar above. Data
current as of September 8, 2008. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 26 August 2008 The month of August brought more severe weather to the U.S. as 141 preliminary reports of tornadoes
were received. Ten tornadoes were reported across Illinois and Indiana from A number of tornadoes were also reported throughout the Southeast during the third and fourth weeks of August.
These tornadoes were associated with Tropical Storm Fay which first made landfall in Florida on August 18. The most tornado reports occurred on as the remnants of Tropical Storm Fay moved
across the Southeast. Tornado counts for August 2008 have yet to be finalized. August 4-5. August 26 More information on severe weather can also be found on. NCDC's Hazards page [ top ]
@ July For the month of July, one tormado-related fatality was reported in the U.S. This brings the to 120, the ninth highest since records began in 1953. January-July fatality total Torado
Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left represents the final number of tornadoes from JanuaryMay and preliminary tornado reports from JuneJuly 2008. Final numbers from
June and July are not yet available and may reflect a significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of August 7, 2008. U.S. Severe Weather Reports for 24 July
2008 As expected, July brought more stable and hot weather to much of the country, reducing the frequency of severe weather and tornado reports. One hundred twenty-one preliminary
reports of tornadoes were received during July, a large decrease from the very active spring. near the town of Deerfield, New Hampshire on July 24 by an EF2 tornado that destroyed several
homes and damaged more than 200 others. This was the first reported tornado fatality in New Hampshire since 1946, and the first tornado-related fatality in New England since a tornado hit
Great Barrington, Massachusetts in 1995. Numerous tomadoes were reported at the end of the month as the rainbands of moved ashore in far southern Texas. Tornado counts for July 2008
have not yet been finalized. One woman was killed Hurticane Dolly More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page [ top] June For the month of June, six
tornado-related fatalities in the U.S. were reported. This brings the to 118, the eighth highest since records began in 1953. January-June fatality total Tornado Fatalities Time Series Important:
The graph above-left represents the final number of tornadoes from January March and preliminary tornado reports from AprilJune 2008. Final numbers are not yet available and may reflect
a significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of July 3, 2008. Loop of June 1-14 Severe Weather Preliminary Reports Following the active pattern of the first five
months of 2008, June brought 377 preliminary reports of tornadoes across the United States and six reported fatalities. The most deadly incident occurred the evening of June 11, when a
tornado struck a Boy Scout camp in western Iowa, killing 4 and injuring nearly 50. Two others were also killed in Kansas the same night, one by an EF3 in Chapman and the other near Soldier.
Kansas State University in Manhattan, KS also suffered major damage from the storms. On June 11, 64 preliminary reports of tornadoes were received across an area from central Kansas
north-northeastward through southern Minnesota. Tornado counts for June 2008 have not yet been finalized. More information on severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page
[top ] January-May For the period January through May, a total of have been reported. This ties with 1968 as the 8th deadliest January through May period since reliable records began in
1953, 112 tornado fatalities Tornado Fatalities Time Series Important: The graph above-left represents the number of tornadoes from January March and preliminary tomado reports from
AprilMay 2008. Final numbers are not yet available and may reflect a significant change, as represented by the error-bar above. Data current as of June 6, 2008. January 7 Severe Weather
Preliminary Reports The beginning of 2008 brought a strong cold front that advanced slowly into relatively warm air, resulting in 54 confirmed reports of tornadoes across the Midwest on
January 7-8, making it the second-largest January tornado outbreak on record [the largest was January 21-22, 1999, when 138 tornadoes struck the southern Mississippi Valley]. At least five
deaths and numerous injuries were blamed on these cold-season twisters and high winds. Although tornadic outbreaks in January are not common, they more frequently occur in the Central
and Southern states and are quite rare in the north-central Plains. The January 7 tornadoes in Wisconsin were the second instance of January tornado reports on record in that state; the first
occurred in 1967. Eighty-four tornadoes were confirmed from January 2008 in the Continental U.S. February Tornado Damage Across the South February brought a deadly tornado outbreak on
the evening and night of the Sth, nicknamed the "Super Tuesday Outbreak" for the large number of presidential primaries earlier that day. Fifty-seven deaths in the southeastern U.S., 32 in
Tennessee alone, were blamed on these storms. This was the highest number of fatalities in a single tornado outbreak since the Ohio- Pennsylvania outbreak of May 31, 1985 killed 76. The
total of 58 tornado fatalities reported in February was the second-highest number for the month on record, second only to 1971 when 134 people lost their lives. One of the tornadoes in
Arkansas, responsible for 12 fatalities, set a new state record path length of 123 miles from Yell to Sharp Counties. The previous record from February 20, 1951 was 112 miles. Later in the
month, a second wave of tornadoes was responsible for nearly 50 injuries. One hundred forty-eight confirmed tornadoes occurred in February 2008 in the Continental U.S. U.S. Severe Weather
Report March 2-7 In March, an EF2 tornado moved through downtown Atlanta on the evening of Friday March 14th, causing significant damage to many buildings, including the Georgia Dome,
which was struck while a Southeast Conference (SEC) tournament basketball game was in progress. This was one of 90 preliminary tornado reports from the Southeast in March, accounting for
61% of all of the reported March tornadoes in the nation. Finalized tornado counts for March 2008 totaled 118. April Tornado Damage Across Arkansas Several strong storm systems affected
the central and eastem U.S. during April. On the 4th, 21 preliminary tornado reports were received across Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, North and South Carolina, while 62 preliminary
reports of tornadoes swept across Texas and Oklahoma April 9-11. Near the end of April, a strong frontal boundary passed across southeastern Virginia, producing 10 preliminary reports of
tornadoes, the worst producing EF3 magnitude damage. Tornado counts have not yet been finalized for April 2008. ~ Satellite image of Tomadic Cell on 25 May 2008 Loop Severe storms
ripped through the central U.S. on , spawning over 90 combined reports of tornadoes, hail, and severe winds. Eleven reported tornadoes claimed the lives of 7 people. The following weekend,
over 80 preliminary tomadoes were reported in the central and southeastem U.S. on , claiming the lives of 23 people: 14 in Missouri, 7 in Oklahoma, and 2 in Georgia. Nearly two weeks later,
15 tornadoes were reported across much of central and western Kansas on May 22-23. The strongest of these occurred near Quinter on May 23 and was classified as an . Numerous tornadoes
hit Iowa on May 25; the worst was a deadly tornado in Parkersburg that claimed the lives of 7 people, caused an estimated , and destroyed more than 200 homes and 21 businesses. The last
time an FS tornado occurred in Iowa was on June 13, 1976. An EF3 tornado touched down in Anoka County, MN on May 25, killing a small child, injuring eight other people, destroying at least
50 homes and seriously damaging 100 others. The May 2008 tornado counts have not yet been finalized. May 1-2 in Arkansas May 10 EF4 EFS $5.8 million in damage More information on
severe weather can also be found on . NCDC's Hazards page