Patch of the Maryland State Police. Agency Overview 1,596 (as of 2004) [1] Civilians 833 (as of 2004) [1] Agency executive Barracks 22 Barrack A Barrack B Barrack C Barrack D Barrack
E Barrack F Barrack G Barrack G Barrack I Barrack L Barrack M Barrack N Barrack O Barrack P Barrack Q Barrack R Barrack S Barrack T Barrack U Barrack V Barrack W Barrack X Helicopters
The is the official force of the State of Maryland State Police state police Maryland Contents [] edit Organizational structure The Maryland State Police is divided into a structure based on the
United States Military, composed of: [3] (commanded by the Colonel)Department of State Police (commanded by a Lieutenant Colonel)Bureaus (commanded by a Major)Commands
(commanded by a Captain or Civilian Director)Divisions (commanded by a Lieutenant)Barracks (commanded by a Captain or Lieutenant or Civilian Director)Sections (commanded by a First
Sergeant)Units The is a member of the department and is charged with investigation and prosecution of suspicious fires and throughout the state. Maryland State Fire Marshal arson [] edit
Field Operations Bureau The Field Operations Bureau comprises twenty-two (22) barracks within six (6) geographical troop areas. It further comprises the Aviation Division, Special Operations
Command, and the Transportation Safety Command that includes the Automotive Safety Enforcement Division, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Division, and the Transportation Safety Division
which are responsible for traffic control and criminal law enforcement. [4] [] edit Homeland Security and Investigation Bureau The Homeland Security and Investigation Bureau was
established to provide investigative services, both overt and covert. It is divided into the Homeland Security Command and the Investigation Command. [] edit Support Services Bureau The
Support Services Bureau is responsible for personnel administration including recrution, retention, training, retirement, and benefits. It maintains the physical and technical infrastructure for
the department. The bureau is currently commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Robert McGainey. Divisions include Facilities Management, Electronic Systems, Information Technology, Motor
Vehicle, Quartermaster, Human Resources, Training, and Promotional Testing. [5] [] edit Office of Strategic Planning The Office of Strageic Planning deals with all planning within the
Department. The Bureau manages the Budget and Finance Division, Government Affairs Unit, Policing Division, Staff Inspections Section, and Planning and Research Division. [] edit History
Prior to 1921, the state of Maryland had no state-wide police force. In that year, in response to increasing crime, the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles organized a team of police officers who
were given statewide jurisdiction to enforce traffic and criminal laws. They gained jurisdiction through by county . An associated plainclothes investigative unit became known as the "State
Police Force." deputization sheriffs [6] In 1935, the Maryland State Police was established as a separate unit of State government, funded out of revenues from the Department of
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. It was granted additional statewide police powers to enforce fish, oyster, game and other conservation laws and maintain a training school. It was made part of
the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services in 1970. [6] In 1994, the Department of Maryland State Police was formed as a separate executive department; it was renamed the
Department of State Police in 1995, Recent Superintendents have included from 1995 to 2003, from 2003 to 2004, from 2004 to 2007, and since 2007. [6] David B. Mitchell Ed Nortis Thomas
E, Hutchins Terrance Sheridan Forty-one state troopers have been killed in the line of duty in the history of the force. [7] [] edit Jurisdiction The Maryland State Police has jurisdiction in the
State of Maryland and may, in its discretion or at the request of any municipal agency, or when ordered by the Governor of the State of Maryland, exercise and enforce statewide laws without
regard to jurisdiction within the boundaries of the State of Maryland. Otherwise, except under certain conditions as defined by statute, the agency does not enforce criminal laws within the
jurisdiction of those incorporated municipalities which have their own police force. [8] The Department also has the authority and jurisdiction to investigate allegations of police corruption
concerning any municipal agency within the State of Maryland. The Department also enforces laws throughout the state. controlled substance [] edit Uniform and equipment The Maryland
State Police uniform has remained the same since 1951. The standard Trooper uniform consists of olive pants with a black stripe down the side. A tan colored button-up is worn, with long
sleeves in winter and short sleeves in summer. A black tie is worn with the long-sleeve shirt. Class A uniforms consist of a dress blouse and . Sergeants and corporals wear yellow showing their
rank on both sleeves. In all cases, the shirttail is tucked in. [9] shirt Sam Browne belt chevrons A felt hat is worn in the winter months with a long sleeve shirt and tie, and a straw Stetson is
wom in the summer months with the short sleeve shirt. Stetson The Maryland State Police, along with the , the and the , is one of the few police agencies to wear a directly over their shirt
pocket. Virginia State Police West Virginia State Police Massachusetts State Police badge Maryland State Police troopers are currently issued the and some are issued a . Certain troopers, based
on experience are issued the following specialized weapons: and the . Beretta PX4 Storm [10] Remington 870 Colt M16-A1 Colt AR-15 [] edit Training [11] The Maryland State Police Training
Academy is in in the same location as the . The Academy is live-in and consists of twenty-six weeks of basic instruction. Sykesville, Maryland Maryland Police and Correctional Training
Commission Recruits take college-level academic classes for which they receive 45 college credits. Training includes instruction in the use of the agency's firearms as well as in criminal law,
motor vehicle law and emergency vehicle operation. Vehicle training is conducted on the training commission's course. Upon completion of training, troopers are assigned to one of twenty two
barracks located around . Maryland