Meet the team What is Nature Network? Nature Network is the professional networking website for scientists around the world. Think of it as the online meeting place where you and your
fellow scientists can gather, share and discuss ideas, and keep in touch. Scientists can also benefit from interactions at the local level. That's why you'll see an increasing number of local city
hubs on Nature Network, starting with and . Boston London To get an overview of Nature Network, watch this . short video What you can do on Nature Network Nature Network is completely
free. Here's what you can do on it: Create your own personal profile page; describe yourself and your research, and list your publications. for your lab, department, institution or subject of
interest. Set up a group Join or set up a to discuss topics related to your discipline. For example, discuss the latest research and trends, ask questions on experimental procedures, seek
careers advice or talk about upcoming or past events. forum Build your own online network of contacts and follow their activity on Nature Network. Give your opinion on what's going on in
your field or in the broader world of science by having your own blog; you can also post comments on . other people's blogs On the local pages, search and browse listings of upcoming
seminars and conferences. We aim to list everything from niche meetings to screenings of science-based films and plays. You can even post your own events. Read and comment on the latest
news, views and historical insights in the local blogs of our featured locations. Browse local jobs listings. Take part in the local discussion forum. Nature Network is shaped by its users. We
encourage you to create your own space on Nature Network and to invite your colleagues to join this growing online community of scientists. How Nature Network works To get the most out
of this website, we recommend that you (all free). You can use your www.nature.com username and password on Nature Network. register and login As a member, you will be able to build
your own profile, create or join a group or forum, post comments on blogs, and add people to your personal network. When you log in for the first time, a default profile will be created for you
that consists of just your name. You will then be invited to complete your profile by filling in additional fields such as your interests, projects, affiliation, location and publications. If you don't
register or log in, you can still read the , , and posted comments. You can also browse and search the events and jobs listings. blogs profiles forums But to really engage with the online
community of scientists, you'll need to register, login, and fill out your profile. Before you begin creating your network and posting comments, please take a few moments to read our
community guidelines We need your feedback! Contact us We're always working on improvements and new features to make the site even more useful to scientists. We welcome feedback,
questions and suggestions for improvement and new features. Please email or use our online . network@nature.com feedback forums Who we are and why we are doing this Nature Network
is brought to you by Nature Publishing Group (NPG). NPG is the publisher of , the Nature research titles, the Nature Reviews journals, the Nature Clinical Practice series, 35 biomedical and
clinical journals, and a number of online products such as Naturejobs and Natureevents. We recognize that the web is a powerful medium not just for disseminating scientific information, but
also for building communities and providing an interactive forum for the exchange of ideas. Nature Advertisement