Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park Foundation, Inc. The men who built the fort and the men who defended it have long since turned to dust, but the old fort brings the reality of the past
ot us. Therefore we should cherish and care for it..." M.C. Homer The purpose of the Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park Foundation, Inc. is to work to perserve, restore maintain, and
promote the historical value, earthworks, buildings, and grounds known as Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park in cooperation with the State of Connecticut Department of Enviromental
Protection.Purpose Goals Help raise state, federal & community awareness and support for Fort Griswold for developing programs, publications, and visitor services. Act as watch-dog group
for the stabilization and preservation of the Fort, Monument, Museum and its contents. Advocate long-range plans and development of the Fort Griswold for the benefit of all citizens and the
community. Pursue National Historic Site status and other means of expanding national awareness of Fort Griswold. Information For futher information about the Friends of Fort Griswold and
the Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park call or write to:Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park Foundation, Inc. As local residents, we are conecerned for the future of Fort Griswold Battlefield State
Park. The need became apparent after funding to stabilize the earthworks at the park were denied. Funding for maintaining and perserving the Park has been declining. The Park needs an
advocacy group to fight for its survival in these days of State fiscal constraints. It is felt that with the backing of local energy and a grass roots effort to raise money for the project, the State
would be willing to help withthe preservation of this historic site. The battle that occured there on September 6, 1781 is an important part of our heritage and national history; the site and the
event are richly woven into the fabric of the culture of southeastern Connecticut. Many decedents of those who fell in the battle live in our area. Meetings are held monthly on the third Monday
of the month at 7:30 pm in the Monument House. The public is welcomed to attend, Fort Griswold Battlefield State Park 57 Fort Street Groton, CT 06340 Telephone: (860) 445-1729 Col
Ledyard September 6, 1781 "We will not give up the Fort let the consequences be what they may." If you are interested in becoming a member, go to the . Print the page, fill it out, and send
it via U.S. Post Mail. membership form page Back to the Fort Created: Wednesday, November 27, 1996, 21:46 lastupdated Thursday, January 18, 2001