Projects we've recently won or begun  OHIO USACOAL-FIRED POWER PLANT American Municipal Power-Ohio has named Bechtel to provide engineering, procurment, and construction for a
1,000-megawatt coal-fired power plant in Meigs County, Ohio. The $3.25 billion facility will use state-of-the-art emission control equipment, making it one of the cleanest plants of its type in
the country. The plant will supply power to municipal electric systems in Ohio, Michigan, Virginia, and West Virginina. AUSTRALIALIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS Bechtel has been selected as the
primary engineering, procurement, and construction contractor for a new liquefied natural gas processing plant near Gladstone, Australia. The Queensland Curtis LNG project is an alliance
between Queensland Gas Company Limited and 8G Group plc. The new plant will produce between 3 and 4 million tonnes of LNG annually for export markets, with potential for expansion to up
to 12 million tonnes. CanadaAluminum Smelter  Rio Tinto Alcan has awarded Bechtel a $200 million contract to provide engineering, procurement, and construction management for the
modernization of an aluminum smelter in Kitimat, British Columbia. The project would increase the smelters annual production capacity by 125,000 tonnes a year to 400,000 tonnes. It would
also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 40 percent. The upgraded smelter would be among the largest in North America Canada - United Statesoil pipeline Construction
has begun on a 2,148-mile (3,456-kilometer) pipeline that will transport up to 590,000 barrels per day of crude oil from the Alberta oil sands in Canada to refineries in the U.S. Midwest.
TransCanada Keystone Pipeline chose Bechtel to provide engineering management, procurement, and construction management services for the pipeline, which will be owned by TransCanada
and ConocoPhillips. Wester AustraliaAlumina Refinery BHP Billiton has selected Bechtel to provide engineering, procurement, and construction management for a $1.9 billion expansion of
its Worsley Alumina refinery in Western Australia. The project, which will expand mining operations, add refinery capacity, and upgrade port facilities, will increase the refinerys capacity for
producing smelter-grade alumina from 3.5 million to 4.6 million tonnes per year Completion is expected in 2011. Papua New GuineaLNG Plant Bechtel has been chosen to provide
front-end engineering and engineering, procurement, and construction work for a planned liquefied natural gas processing facility in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. Like other recent Bechtel
LNG projects, this one will use the Optimized Cascade process technology developed by ConocoPhllips. The project is contingent on government agreements and confirmation of natural gas
reserves.  ANGolaLNG plant Construction is under way on a 5.2 million-tonne-per-year liquefied natural gas processing plant near the town of Soyo in Angola on Africa's West Coast. The
project, which will use ConocoPhillips Optimized Cascade process technology, is the second LNG plant for Bechtel in Africa. The first one, on Bioko Island in Equatorial Guinea, began operating
in 2007. Open positions Tennessee usaNuclear Plant Completion  Bechtel is leading engineering, procurement, and construction work on a $2.5 billion project to complete Unit 2 at Watts
Bar Nuclear Plant in Spring City, Tennessee. When it begins operation in 2012, Watts Bar Unit 2 will add approximately 1,200 megawatts of power to the Tennessee Valley Authority system,
enough to serve 650,000 homes. Open positions _ florida and Wisconsin usaFlorida Power and Light  Bechtel has been selected to increase the generating capacity of Florida Power &
Lights existing nuclear units at Turkey Point, Florida; Port St. Lucie, Florida; and Point Beach, Wisconsin; by an additional 100 megawatts each. This power uprate entails modifying or replacing
existing plant components such as the turbine generators, valves, and certain control systems to increase electric generation capacity.Power uprates are an efficient and affordable way to
increase nuclear generation capacity and increase clean electric generation that does not emit greenhouse gas emissions while also reducing reliance on any single source of fuel. This then
reduces the impact of fuel price volatility and increases energy security. Open positions Featured project Largest Mining Project in chile Bechtel will expand a copper concentrator in the Andes
northeast of Santiago, Chile, under a $1.2 billion contract with Anglo American SUR S.A. The project will more than double output of the Los Bronces facility by adding a new concentrator and
new crushing and conveying equipment, among other improvements. The expansionthe largest mining job currently in Chileis scheduled for completion in December 2010. Bechtel will perform
project management, engineering, and procurement, while direct-hire construction will be executed through a joint venture of Bechtel and Sigdo Koppers, BSK, which will provide the direct-hire
labor and supervision.  Open positions