Associations Top DJs Links: - National, non-profit association for professional mobile and night club DJs and KJs. Membership and consumer information as well as disc jockey listings.
American Disc Jockey Association - Includes events, KJ search, advice, newsletter, and message board. American Karaoke Association - Not for profit trade association for disc jockeys across
Canada. News, trade shows, and membership information for DJs. Advice and directory listings for consumers. Canadian Disc Jockey Association - Membership information, DJ profiles, and
charts. Danish Country DJs Association - Trade association formed to meet the needs of professional mobile DJs, nightclub DJs, and KJs. Also assists party planners and brides. List of benefits,
application form, and D3 listings. National Association of Mobile Entertainers - Includes membership criteria, upcoming events, profiles, and advice. New York State Disc Jockey Association -
Private trade alliance comprised of privately recruited professional entertainers, working together to set and maintain industry standards. News, list of endorsed companies, and membership
information. North Texas Mobile Entertainers Alliance - International trade association. Membership benefits and standards, as well as DJ listings. Online Disc Jockey Association - Lists
companies that have PAT tested equipment. PAT Validator - Public liability insurance validation for mobile djs. PLI Validator - Mobile disco, DJ and discotheque association in the south east of
England (Sussex, Kent, Surrey, London and Essex). Hire a member for your occasion or join the organisation. Advice for DJ's or those who wish to book a DJ South Eastern Discotheque
Association (UK) - UK based DJ association. Membership information and meeting dates. Thames Valley Disc Jockeys Association - Association for disc jockey and karaoke entertainers
Membership information, consumer tips, and news. US Mobile Entertainers Alliance - Providing a complete training service and agency for upcoming DJs and practising DJs wanting to know
more about their scene. United DJs Of Australia - Association of Utah Professional Djs. Utah Disc Jockey Association This category needs an editor Copyright  2001-2007