Map Columbia University is one of the world's most important centers of research and at the same time a distinctive and distinguished learning environment for undergraduates and graduate
students in many scholarly and professional fields. The University recognizes the importance of its location in New York City and seeks to link its research and teaching to the vast resources of a
great metropolis. It seeks to attract a diverse and international faculty and student body, to support research and teaching on global issues, and to create academic relationships with many
countries and regions. It expects all areas of the university to advance knowledge and learning at the highest level and to convey the products of its efforts to the world. Faculty Number of
Intemational Faculty Staff Headcount: 279 FTE: 247 Number of academic faculty staff who are of foreign nationality. The term international is hereby determined by citizenship. For EU
countries, this includes all foreign nationals, even if from another EU state. In Hong Kong, this includes professors from Mainland China. Inclusion and exclusion mirrors those for academic
faculty staff. Number of Faculty Staff FTE: 3,869 Total number of academic faculty staff who are responsible for planning, directing and undertaking teaching only, research only or both
teaching and research. Please include: vice-chancellors, deputy vice-chancellors, principals, professors, heads of school, associate professors, principal lecturers and tutors. Please exclude
research assistants, PhD students who contribute to teaching, and exchange scholars or visiting professors who are members of another university. *FAQ: How is research assistant defined?
Undergraduate Information Number of Undergraduate Students Headcount: 7,285 FTE: 6,728 Number of students pursuing a Bachelor s level or equivalent degree. This excludes
certificates/diplomas and associate s degrees. Number of Intemational Undergraduate Students Headcount: 600 Number of undergraduate students who are foreign nationals. The term
international is hereby determined by citizenship. For EU countries, this includes all foreign nationals, even nationals of other EU states. In Hong Kong, this includes students from Mainland
China. Please exclude all exchange students. Average International Undergraduate Fees $ USD 35,516 Average tuition fees per academic year (two semesters) that an international student
would be expected to pay for an undergraduate program, with program referring to the complete range of courses contributing to a degree. FAQ: How do I calculate average fees? Average
Domestic Undergraduate Fees $USD 35,516 Average tuition fees per academic year (two semesters) that a domestic student would be expected to pay for an undergraduate program, with
program referring to the complete range of courses contributing to a degree. FAQ: How do I calculate average fees? Graduate / Postgraduate Information Number of Graduate / Postgraduate
Students Headcount: 15,370 FTE: 13,828 Students pursuing a higher-level degree (Master and Doctorate), including both taught and research postgraduates (e.g. PhD students) Number of
Intemational Graduate Students Headcount: 4,275 FTE: 4,048 Number of graduate / postgraduate students who are foreign nationals. The term international is hereby determined by
citizenship. For EU countries, this includes all foreign nationals, even nationals of other EU states. In Hong Kong, this includes students from Mainland China. Average International Graduate /
Postgraduate Fees $ USD 33,364 Average tuition fees per academic year (two semesters) that an intemational student would be expected to pay for a graduate / postgraduate program, with
program referring to the complete range of courses contributing to a degree. FAQ: How do I calculate average fees? Average Domestic Graduate / Postgraduate Fees $ USD 33,364 Average
tuition fees per academic year (two semesters) that a domestic student would be expected to pay for a graduate / postgraduate program, with program referring to the complete range of
courses contributing to a degree. FAQ: How do I calculate average fees? Students