back to top Sight words are words that a reader can recognize and read without sounding out each individual letter. Many sight words are hard to sound out phonetically and must be
memorized. I suggest printing a copy of the and practicing. It is expected that second grade students can read most of the 1,200 words on the list without hesitation. Spelling the sight words
correctly would be an added bonus since these words are used frequently in students writing. sight word list Here are a few suggestions for how to practice learning sight words. The more a
beginning reader sees words and practices reading them, the easier reading becomes. PRACTICE! PRACTICE! PRACTICE! Flashcards work well for many students. Each word should be
written neatly on an index card. Write large enough so the reader can touch each letter as they are saying the sounds. In the lower right corner of each card, write the list number that the
word is from. Keep the cards for review.MAKE FLASHCARDS Although learning to read sight words a spelling activity, some people memorize things by repeatedly writing them down.WRITE
THE WORDS THAT ARE TRICKYIS NOT With a colored marker or crayon, outline the shape of the word. Pay close attention to blends, such as ... Blends should be underlined or boxed together
so the reader has a visual cue to remember to say the sounds as one, not choppy as two.USE COLORSth, wh, sh, tr Usually, when two vowels are together the first one does the talking, the
last one does the walking. In the word the o makes a sound and the is silent (the first one does the talking, the last one does the walking.) An at the end of the word is silent because it is tired
from helping the other vowel say its name. For example: In the word the says its name () and the is silent. VOWELS,coatlongoaeTAPE,aae MATH FACTS To be successful in math, students
should be able to recall basic math facts quickly and accurately. Fact practice is introduced in first grade and continues each year after that. Second grade students are expected to know
addition and subtraction facts, zero to ten. Third grade students should know multiplication and division facts through tens. There is no single, best way to learn math facts, except for practice
Flashcards work well. Some students learn by writing things down. Other kids do better working on the computer. Try different ways and go with what works for you. Here are some websites
that will help reinforce speedy and accurate recall of basic math facts: