Wrist Sprain Writer's Cramp Hard to believe, isn't it? You may think its a little nutty to believe that tiny little knots in your muscles could be responsible for so many kinds of trouble. But these
are . Consider that your muscles make up as much as 50% of your body weight. You have muscles everywhere, covering nearly every other tissue or structure in the body.medically proven
facts Symptoms that appear to be generated by a joint, an internal or external organ, or an eye, ear, or tooth can in reality be an effect caused by trigger points in nearby muscles, or even a
muscle some distance away. Here are a few examples: The pain from a trigger point in a chest muscle can make you feel you're having a heart attack. Referral from a trigger point in a neck
muscle can make an eyelid droop or twitch. Nerve compression by a muscle that is being kept in a state of constant tension by trigger points can cause numbness in a hand or foot. Joint pain
sent from trigger points in nearby muscles can feel like arthritis. A toothache can be nothing but referred pain from a jaw muscle. Can the solution be something so commonplace as massage?
What do you do when a muscle hurts or feels tight? You rub it, of course! Its natures cure. And rubbing is exactly what works with a trigger point. Remember that pain and other
symptoms from trigger points are usually displaced.provided that you rub in the right place In treating the ankle pain in the example at the top of the page, it would do very little good to rub
the ankle itself. You have to know that the real source of the pain is a knot in a muscle halfway up the side of the leg. Intuition or commonsense won't help you find these knots. You need some
guidance. will help you find your trigger points and show you how to self-treat them in the most effective and efficient way. If conventional medical treatment or physical therapy arent giving
you the relief you need, your salvation may lie in self-applied trigger point massage. The Trigger Point Therapy Workbook The price of the book is a bargain, considering the enormous amount
of information it contains, and the risks of the therapy are almost nonexistent. If you're ready to take your well-being into your own hands, you may be in for a very pleasant surprise. To learn
more, please explore some of these other pages: about author Clair Davies and his own struggle with pain just exactly what are they? an explanation for this puzzling phenomenon a
three-page summary of the book by David G. Simons, MD by people who have been helped by the book endorsements of the method by nine eminent physicians helpful items
recommended by Clair Davies in Dutch, Hebrew, and Spanish an index of all the pages on this web site a new book on shoulder pain and stiffness Chapter One