Cover Stories Spring 2002 Rally Held in Support of Rhode Island Governor's Bid to End Purse Subsidies More than 30 animal activists rallied at the State House on Saturday, Jan. 26, in
support of Gov. Lincoln Almond's proposal to end the state subsidy to greyhound kennel owners at Lincoln Greyhound Park. Kennel owners receive six percent of the revenue from the track's
video lottery terminals (VLTs) to supplement purses. In year 2002, 15 kennel owners are projected to receive $13.4 in subsidies.Providence: The rally was organized by Boston-based
GREY2KUSA and two Rhode Island animal protection groups, Defenders of Animals and Volunteer Services for Animals. Rally participants held signs that read: "End the Subsidies - End the
Cruelty," and signs depicting a greyhound puppy that read: "In Four Years He Will Die - You Can Bet On It." State Sen. Rhoda Perry, D-Providence, also participated. The following week Perry
co-introduced Sentate Bill 2613, a measure that would end live dog racing but allow the VLTs to continue to operate at the track. The bill would also create a Neighborhood Community Trust
Fund to benefit education programs and community centers. The trust would be funded from a percentage of the VLT revenue now being funneled into purse subsidies. The bill had not been
scheduled for a hearing as of mid-April. Since last December, when Almond first called for an end to the subsidies, the issue has been hotly debated in the Legislature and the media. About
100 people rep-resenting the dog racing industry packed a State House hearing room Jan. 30 to protest Almond's plan. Almond, testifying Feb. 11 before the House Finance Committee, said,
"The budget is always about choices. Are we going to deny education aid to struggling schools so we can give taxpayer money to kennel owners?" Joseph Larisa, Almond's chief of staff, told
committee members, "It's far worse than a subsidy - we're actually paying for the greyhound industry in this state." The Providence Journal-Sentinel published two editorial opinions written by
Almond and one written by GREY2K USA's president Carey Theil, titled "How Many Dogs Did You Kill Today?" In an editorial opinion published Feb. 14, the Journal strongly supported Almond's
proposal, asking, "Why should taxpayers be required to prop up such a profitable (and often cruel to animals) industry" Source: The Providence Journal-Sentinel: Liz Anderson, Linda Borg,
Edward Fitzpatrick