Home Human Canine Equine HA Buy About Cortaflex Cortaflex is a nutritional supplement and, because it has beneficial effects on joints of the body, it is classed as a nutraceutical".
This means that it is not a drug and does not contain any substances which are classed as drugs. In fact although Cortaflex comes in three different formulations - for people, for dogs & cats
and for horses - its ingredients are purely natural, it only contains substances which are already found in the body and the joints of the body. Ingredients The active ingredients in all
formulations of Cortaflex are called mucopolysaccharides, which are also known as Glycosaminoglycans Cortaflex ingredients:Glucuronic Acid, Proline, Glutamic Acid, L-Glutamine, Aspartic Acid
and Glycene. The three formulations - , and - have additional, all natural, ingredients specific to each breed which aids the digestion and absorbtion of the active ingredients. See the human,
canine and equine pages for the full list of ingredients. Human Cortaflex Canine Cortaflex Equine Cortaflex Human Cortaflex Cortaflex for people is available in two formulations. Choose from
the regular capsules or the high strength Cortaflex HA Capsules which are fortified with Hyaluronic Acid, a major component of joint fluid. Both types are available in a convenient one - a - day
capsule. Human Cortaflex ... Canine Cortaflex Further proof that Cortaflex does not just produce a placebo effect... animals don't improve just because they think a supplement will make
them feel better! Canine Cortaflex, specially formulated for dogs and cats, is available in three types - liquid, powder & capsules. Canine Cortaflex ... Equine Cortaflex Cortaflex was originally
developed for horses by an American nutritionist and horseman called Bruce Snipes! Humans had been taking supplements containing glucosamine and chondroitin for years but Bruce knew
that he had to find a way of making these substances more effective if they were to be used in the treatment of animals. Equine Cortaflex ... Cortaflex HA Hyaluronic Acid is a major
component of Joint Fluid and is a powerful addition to Cortaflex and HA is available for humans, dogs & cats and horses. Cortaflex HA ... Glucosamine and Chondroitin There are lots of
supplements containing Glucosamine and Chondroitin, they all work in varying degrees, but there is a fundamental problem with them... the molecular structure of Glucosamine is large,
Chondroitin even larger, and they are just too big to get out of the bloodstream into the cells in joints where they are needed. See our other website Natural Animal Health for more information
about the problem with glucosamine white blood cell red blood cell glucosamine molecule chondroitin molecule Joint Wear and Tear The bones in your joints rub together - or rather, they
don't! The articulating surfaces of the bones in the joints are covered in cartilage and the whole joint capsule contains synovial fluid which is an oily substance - literally "joint oil". Cartilage is
slippery and synovial fluid is slippery so a normal healthy joint works well and causes no pain. However, with age and/or injury, cartilage can get worn and synovial fluid can lose its quality...the
result: pain, stiffness and swelling. How Cortaflex Works To repair cartilage and improve synovial fluid the body needs glucosamine and chondroitin but, taken orally, these have too large a
molecular size to be effective - they just don't get absorbed into the joints where they are needed. Cortaflex contains the much smaller molecules of the constituent parts of these two
substances and is much better at getting into the joints...the result: the body has more of the necessary building blocks to heal its joints. See ingredients list on the left hand column of this
page