Contact are the largest group of arachnids. These familiar predators live in nearly every ecosystem, in trees, on the ground, under rocks and in tall grasses -- even in deserts, caves, and on
the water. They are easily recognized by their eight legs, and there are few creatures great or small that elicit such irrational fear in mankind. The vast majority of spiders are completely
harmless and offer beneficial services, chief of which is keeping the burgeoning insect population in check. Class Arachnida > Order Araneae: Spiders -- Table of Contents - Check out our large
- we have been busy photographing azaleas and thododendrons for your gardening choices for next spring. Documented specimens from The Morton Arboretum assure you what you are
looking at is the real thing. Of course, our wildflower pictures are here, too.Flowers! flower pictures -Table of Contents belong to this large order, which also includes sawflies. There are over
17,000 known species in North America, 110,000 worldwide. Females of most species have a well-developed ovipositor, which in some bees, wasps, and ants is modified into a stinger. Most
species are solitary, but some, such as the , exhibit a complex social structure in which exist sterile female workers and fertile male and female "royalty." Many other species are parasites of
beetles and other insect pests of agriculture.Order Hymenoptera: Bees, Wasps, and Ants domestic honeybee - Table of Contents- are the dominant form of life on earth: one of every five living
species is a beetle. Coleoptera is the largest order in the animal kingdom, containing a third of all insect species. There are about 300,000 known species worldwide, 30,000 of which live in
North America. Ladybugs and lightning bugs and fireflies are all well-known misnamed insects; they are all beetles. Some beetles are scavengers, some predators and some are parasites; their
frequently brightly colored or iridescent elytra (the tough, armor-like fore wings used to cover the soft flying wings) earn them the sobriquet "living jewels."Order Coleoptera: Beetles -Beetles
Table of Contents - Red Planet Photograph featured on CBS NewsSunday Morning That's our Sugar Maple are prevalent in virtually all habitats, with over 16,000 species in North America.
Flies can be distinguished from all other insects in that they only have one pair of normal wings. Most flies have compound eyes and mouthparts adapted for piercing, lapping or sucking fluids.
Order Diptera: Flies Some flies are deadly carriers of disease; millions still die from mosquito-cartied malaria every year. Countless fall victim to yellow fever, typhoid and dysentery, all caused
by fly-born bacteria. On the other hand, flies are important pollinators, scavengers, and parasites of other harmful insects. --Table of Contents-- and , revered for their magnificently colored
wings and pleasing association with fair weather and flowers, are probably the most well-known and highly regarded of the insects. Lepidoptera, which includes both butterflies and moths,
comprises at least 125,000 known species including 12,000 in America north of Mexico.Order Lepidoptera: Butterflies moths These enchanting insects have 4 membranous wings covered with
delicate pigmented or prismatic scales. Please visit our pages of , pictures of live tropical butterflies from across the globe, and the , a whole family of small butterflies within Lepidoptera.
Butterflies of the World Skipper Butterflies -Table of contents- Explore large-format pictures detailing mature trees, leaves, bark and fruit, read the vital statistics and natural history of many of
our common trees. Our photographs of are of live, documented, professionally identified trees, shrubs and forbs. Tree Encyclopedia -Table of Contents- species number almost 5,000 in North
America, and 40,000 worldwide. Almost all of them have a first pair of wings that fold flat over the back, and mouthparts formed into a beak, adapted for sucking plant juices. Between the
wings, the modified back of the metathorax forms a distinctive triangular shield, called the scutellum. Most true bugs are terrestrial, but some are aquatic, and their legs have evolved into oar
like structures. Many species have glands that exude odoriferous chemicals to repel predators. Some species are carnivorous, while some others are parasitic, while still others nectar at flowers
like butterflies. All in all, a diverse, fascinating group of flying insects.Order Hemiptera: True Bugs -Table of Contents- _. Unlike the butterflies, most moths are nocturnal and hold their wings
roof like over the body, curled around the body, or.. held just like butterfly wings. Many moths and their caterpillars are a major agricultural pest in many parts of the world, Moths in the family
Tineidae are commonly regarded as pests because their larvae eat fabrics, clothes and blankets made from natural fibers such as wool or silk. They are less likely to eat mixed materials
containing artificial fibers. There is apochryphal evidence they are repelled by the scent of wood from juniper and cedar, by lavender, or by other natural oils.Order Lepidoptera: Moths --Table of
Contents-- : These colorful, enchanting insects are revered second only to the butterflies in the popular psyche. Explore detailed close-up photographs of live, adult dragonflies photographed in
the wild, We never capture or refrigerate or squash our subjects in a scanner.: Dragonflies Order Odonata 300 million years and still going strong. -Table of Contents- date back 300 million
years, to the Carboniferous Period of the Paleozoic Era. Today, there are about 450 North American species, and 5,000 in all. They have evolved in to highly efficient hunters; their freely
moveable heads sport huge compound eyes -- in the case of the dragonfly, the eyes nearly cover the entire head - and their sharp biting mouthparts, coupled with their four powerful,
independent wings make them extremely agile flyers capable of snatching prey in midair. The mating ritual involves some peculiar acrobatics called a mating "wheel.": and Order Odonata
Dragonflies Damselflies Table of Contents- : have beaklike mouthparts arising from far back beneath the head, adapted for sucking plant juices. Homopteran wings are uniformly membranous,
and frequently transparent. All members of this order are plant feeders. Aphids are among the most injurious agricultural pests, they can reproduce without mating; theoretically, one female
aphid can produce billions of offspring. Many exude a sweet secretion called honeydew, and ants are known to farm aphids for this purpose. Male cicadas produce the loudest sounds in the
insect world, their buzzing sometimes exceeding 100 decibels. Order Homoptera Cicadas, hoppers and their kin --Table of Contents-- : and . Mantids have triangular heads with huge
compound eyes, long, thin bodies, four thin legs, and prominent forelegs held in the characteristic prayerful pose. These forelegs are covered with spines, and can move faster than the eye can
see to snatch prey. The strong mouthparts can cut through even heavily armored heads of insects, and these fearsome predators are voracious eaters. The female mantis sometimes even
devours the male while mating. Both genders use their exquisite camouflage and ability to remain motionless to lie in wait an ambush unwary prey which sometimes includes small frogs,
lizards, and even hummingbirds.Order Dictyoptera Mantids cockroaches _: and crickets have long, powerfully muscled hind legs that they use for jumping, large, flat-sided heads with big
compound eyes and large chewing mouthparts. They have a saddle shaped pronotum and two pairs of wings, one of which (the pair used for flying) is kept folded under the leathery straight
forewings, called tegmina. Grasshopper and cricket males are known for their musical sounds made when they rub together roughened portions of their wings or legs. Both families are serious
agricultural pests; Grasshoppers can destroy crops over wide areas when their numbers increase and they descend on fields in huge swarms, devouring all foliage in their path.Order Orthoptera
Grasshoppers Table of Contents- Ticks are external blood-feeding parasites of birds, mammals and reptiles and are important vectors of Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, and
others viral and bacterial diseases. Learns to protect yourselves and your loved ones (doggies, especially). Visit the or the and theClass Arachnida > Order Ixodida American dog tick
Black-legged Deer Tick Lone Star Tick and Southern Tick Associated Rash Infection (STARI) We are building our invasive plant catalog as time permits. Invasive Plants Photo: Petra Korlevic
includes some of the most important organisms, both in terms of their ecological and economic roles. By breaking down dead organic material, they continue the cycle of nutrients through
ecosystems. In addition, most vascular plants could not grow without the symbiotic fungi, or mycorthizae, that inhabit their roots and supply essential nutrients. Other fungi provide numerous
drugs (such as penicillin and other antibiotics), foods like , truffles and morels, and the bubbles in bread, champagne, and beer. Fungi also cause a number of plant and animal diseases: in
humans, ringworm, athlete's foot. In plants: rusts, smuts, leaf, root, and stem rots.kingdom: Fungi mushrooms --Table of Contents-- : or harvestmen are often erroneously designated as
spiders; they are not. About 1900 species of harvestmen are distributed over the world in forests, fields and other land habitats. They can and do walk on water. We have 60 or more species in
North America and the adults of all but one of these die with the coming of winter. They mate in late summer and autumn. The seven-jointed legs are unique - if we had legs in proportion, they
would be 40 feet long. The small turret on the top of the head has a tiny eye on either side, capable of detecting motion from several feet away. These oddball creatures are some of the most
abundant on our forest floor, and they climb about all over hell in low foliage.Order Opiliones Daddy Long Legs : and their kin include about 85 species in North America, 400 worldwide. The
common name refers to the female's genitalia, conspicuously curled upwards over the abdomen, much like a scorpions stinger. Mecopterans do not sting or bite. Adults are weak flyers,
spending most of their time in low vegetation, hunting small soft-bodied insects or scavenging on fruit, dead insects and even bird droppings. Mecopterans have changed little from fossils 250
million years old, and many entomologists consider now extinct members of this order to be the ancestors of modern-day flies, fleas, butterflies, and moths.Order Mecoptera Scorpionflies :
Members of this order have many veins and cross veins in their four transparent wings. Neuroptera means "nerve wing." There are only 338 species in North America. The order includes
lacewings, antlions, mantidflies, and spongillaflies. Lacewings are poor flyers found mostly in low vegetation. They have large, copper-colored compound eyes and long, thin antennae. They
have mouthparts adapted for chewing, but I've never seen adults feeding. Their larvae are commonly called aphidlions.Order Neuroptera Lacewings : resemble moths, but have very fine hairs
on their wings instead of scales, and lack the coiled proboscis of moths. The Greek order name means "hairy wing." Most adults are nocturnal and hide in vegetation during the day. The
aquatic larvae of some species are free swimming predators, some spin silken nets to trap vegetable matter in fast-moving water, and still others construct portable shelters out of sand grains,
bits of shell, or even plant fragments. These larva are called casemakers, and each genus has a distinctive style and construction method. Trout and other fishermen value the casemaker as
bait for sport fish.Order Trichoptera Caddisflies : . Ephemeroptera: Greek Ephemeros - short-lived, pteron - wing, referring to the short life span of adults; they survive only a few hours or at
most a few days. They eat nothing, nor do they crawl or walk. They only fly and mate within dancing swarms, usually in late afternoon or evening. Mayflies do not bite or sting or feed on
homes, or furnishings or food. (Their abundant presence is an indicator of clean water and a healthy environment.) The chief importance lies in their value as food for fish, dragonfly nymphs
and birds. Anglers imitate the adults in dry flies, referred to as "spinners" or "duns," and patter wet flies after the nymphs (Naiads).Order Ephemeroptera Mayflies - , sow bugs and are neither
insects nor arachnids, but crustaceans, members of the same class as shrimps, lobsters and crabs. We include them here because they are some of the most abundant "bugs" in our forests and
field. Anyone who has ever turned over a log or rock is familiar with these primitive critters. They are omnivores and scavengers, feeding upon decaying vegetable matter, fungi and animal
remains. They form an important link in the food chain by recycling dead and decaying material.Subphylum: Crustacea > Class: Malacostraca > Order: Isopoda Pillbugs woodlice Please visit
our pages on flowers, and trees of the prairie and Oak Savannah. There are many species of flowers of interest to butterfly gardeners, prairie restorers and urban and suburban
gardeners.Flowers, Wildflowers and Praitie Plants wildflowers -Table of Contents- High on the top-ten list of disgusting things are the earwigs, primitive critters in the Order Dermaptera. Leam
how to control these little buggers, and why they really don't do any harm (and they certainly don't burrow into your brain through your ears). Eew.: Earwigs Order Dermaptera Bedbugs ?In
this day and age? Oh yeah, they are making a big comeback in North America. Learn what you need to know to protect yourself, on the road (New York City hotels have become suspect) and in
your home. These disgusting little critters want for their next blood meal. Find out why those little portable steam deaners are a big waste of money and why directing clouds of "steam" around
your house is not such a good idea. Myths exploded. with pictures. OMG. Bedbugs you