BIRTH CONTROL IN DOGS The cheapest form of birth control for a dog costs a few dollars - the price of a leash! Cheque Drops: General Information: Cheque is a highly effective drug for
birth control in female dogs. It must, however, be used as directed. The following precautions must be heeded: Cheque should not be given to dogs that have not cycled for the first time.
Cheque should not be given to dogs that are pregnant or lactating, have reproductive tract disease or tumours, or have tumours of the anal area. Cheque should not be given to dogs with a
history of liver or kidney disease. Cheque should not be given to Bedlington Terriers Cheque should not be given for more than 24 consecutive months A physical examination and vaginal
smear should be performed before treatment to determine the dog health status and stage of the reproductive cycle, Cheque is not intended for female dogs kept primarily for breeding
purposes. After stopping treatment, most dogs will come into heat in 2-3 months. A heat period can occur anytime from 1 week to 8 months after treatment is stopped. Notify your
veterinarian if any of the following occur: Your pet develops a vaginal discharge A pink, fleshy mass protrudes from the vaginal opening Your pet comes into heat while taking Cheque Your
pet becomes aggressive Your pet becomes lethargic or reluctant to eat MIBOLERONE (Cheque Drops)Mibolerone is used to prevent dogs from coming into heat, and in the treatment of some
causes of infertility and false pregnancy. . . Contact your veterinarian if your dog experiences aggression, urinary incontinence, lethargy, lack of appetite, weight loss, vomiting, or yellow gums
while taking Mibolerone. Mibolerone Cheque Drops Androgenic steroid Drops Store at room temperature unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer. Prevention of estrus, infertility, false
pregnancy FDA approved for use in dogs for estrus suppression. Mibolerone is an androgenic steroid which opposes the effects of estrogen and other hormones which cause ovulation and
subsequent production of progesterone. Need to start the medication at least 30 days before proestrus to prevent the female from coming into heat. It is about 90% effective. Do not use in
dogs which are to be bred in the future, as start of the next cycle may vary from 7-200 days from discontinuation of Cheque Drops. It has been used to lengthen short cycles which cause
infertility and to treat false pregnancies. The false pregnancy may recur when the medication is discontinued. Because of this and the fact that most false pregnancies resolve on their own, no
treatment is usually given. The most effective way to prevent these problems in dogs who are not showing in the breed ring and are not going to be used for breeding is by an
ovariohysterectomy (spay). Contact your veterinarian. May see increase in clitoral size which may resolve after treatment is discontinued, vaginal discharge, mounting other dogs, aggression,
change in voice, increase in oily skin and body odor, reproductive tract lesions, tearing, or urinary incontinence. May also cause liver disease or death especially in cats. Summary Do NOT use
in catsDo NOT use in dogs with or predisposed to liver or kidney disease Generic Name or other breeds predisposed to kidney or liver disease.Do not use in Bedlington Terriers with liver or
kidney disease.Do not use in patients with androgen-dependent cancers such as perianal adenocarcinomas (malignant tumors that occur near the anus).Do not use in patients , in pregnant or
nursing dogs, or for more than 24 months.Do not use before the first estrus cycle , as it has a very narrow therapeutic range.Do not use in cats Drug or Food Interactions with progestins or
estrogens.Do not use May decrease effect of phenytoin. No known food interactions. May see increased tearing, lethargy, lack of appetite, weight loss, muscle pain, or liver, pancreatic, or
thyroid disease. May cause death.Overdose/Toxicity Veterinary & Aquatic Services Department, Drs. Foster & Smith, Inc. Web Site Ovaban Ovaban is a highly effective drug for birth control
in female dogs. It must, however, be used as directed. The following precautions must be heeded: Ovaban should not be given to dogs that have not cycled for the first time. Ovaban should
not be given to dogs with mammary tumours or reproductive tract disease. Ovaban should not be given to pregnant dogs. Ovaban should not be given for more than 2 consecutive heat
cycles. Treatment can be resumed after one cycle without treatment. A physical examination and vaginal smear should be performed before treatment to determine the dog health status and
stage of the reproductive cycle. :General Information Notify your veterinarian if any of the following occur: Your pet mammary glands enlarge or produce milk Your pet seems listless or drinks
or urinates excessively Your pet temperament or appetite changes Your pet develops a vaginal discharge. Progestins (Ovaban)This is a drug that we almost NEVER recommend. We
occasionally use it for purposes other than it's "labeled" intent but quite rarely. We consider ovario hysterectomy the safest method of birth control in dogs and cats at this time and do not
consider this an appropriate choice in most cases. Progestin in the form of megestrol acetate (Ovaban) is used to postpone heat cycles in dogs and as a treatment for false pregnancy. It has
also been used to treat certain skin conditions in cats. Because of its severe side effects, and the availability of other therapies, Ovaban should only be used as a last resort. Contact your
veterinarian if your pet experiences increased thirst or urination, depression, mammary gland enlargement, temperament changes, vaginal discharge, vomiting, or yellow gums while being
treated with Ovaban. Megestrol Acetate Ovaban Hormones Tablets Store at room temperature. Used to postpone estrus (female's heat cycle) and help end a false pregnancy. Megestrol acetate
is FDA approved for use in dogs. Available by prescription. This medication is not used as frequently due to development of newer and safer medications; it is prescribed with utmost caution
Progesterone and other progestins are produced by the female's ovaries and by the placenta. They regulate "heat" cycles, prepare the body for pregnancy, maintain pregnancy, and stimulate
milk production. Progestins have the opposite effect as testosterone, and they have been used without FDA approval to reduce male sexual behaviors including fighting, roaming, inappropriate
mounting, and other behaviors. Need to use behavior training at the same time. Other treatments including neutering and behavior training are preferred due to the potential side effects of the
medication. Progestins have also been used to treat types of inflammation and immune-mediated diseases although corticosteroids are preferred if they work. Megestrol acetate is used in cats
for treatment of behavior problems. Estrus suppression: depends on stage of cycle when start. Consult your veterinarian. Best results if start within first 3 days of proestrus. Treatment of false
pregnancy: given daily for 8 days. Consult your veterinarian for dose. Pills may be given whole or crushed and given with food. May see mammary enlargement or tumors; milk production;
listlessness; increased appetite, thirst, and urination; bone marrow suppression; temperament changes; or uterine changes including pyometra (infection) and infertility. Cats may develop
Addison's disease, diabetes, or liver damage. Note from Dr. McKee: Do not use in animals hypersensitive (allergic) to it Do not give for more than 2 consecutive treatments Time to return to
estrus ranges from 2-9 months after treatment Do not use in dogs prior to or during their first estrus cycle or in dogs with abnormal estrus cycles Not for use in pregnant dogs. Use in last half
of pregnancy may result in small litters and dead puppies Not for use in dogs with diabetes mellitus, mammary tumors, uterine disease, or other disorders of the reproductive organs Do not
use in pets with glaucoma or thyroid disease Do not allow dogs to become pregnant within 30 days of using the medication Need to complete the full length of treatment for desired effects
May need to give corticosteroids if using progestins during times of stress due to the adrenal gland suppression. Drug or Food Interactions May have decreased effect if used with rifampin
Increased suppression of adrenal glands if used with corticosteroids May increase amount of insulin needed to control diabetes mellitus No known food interactions No specific information is,
available. Contact your veterinarian or the Animal Poison Control Center if you think your pet may have accidentally received or been given an overdose of the medication.Overdose/Toxicity
Veterinary & Aquatic Services Department, Drs. Foster & Smith, Inc. Web Site ESTROUS CONTROL IN THE BITCH 1. NEW INSIGHT IN THE OVARIAN CYCLEThe more we study the bitch
hormonal cycle, the more it appears complex. Indeed, the interest for the bitch reproductive cycle was up to some years ago relatively reduced and in fact often associated with extrapolations
from studies in other species. Since 10-20 years, progressively, more and more input has been given in the study of this species and the peculiarity of canine among the vast majority of other
mammalians slowly atises. Nowadays, dogs are studied per se but also as models for other species of carnivore particularly endangered species of wild carnivores. This allows for an emerging
field of discovery relative to physiology of reproduction. We will have an overview of the most recent observations and of their consequences in clinical practice and breeding management.
Among these, the biology of pregnancy has not been investigated in dogs as vigorously as it has been in other species of common domestic and laboratory animals. 2. THE BITCH

CYCLE Variability is certainly the main characteristic of the bitch reproductive cycle and this term can be apply to any part of the bitch reproductive life: urge differences in the hormonal
profiles, in the ovarian events, in reproductive behaviour..... All this makes the clinical work of the practitioner often relatively complex and the one of the breeder even more difficult! 2.1. The
hormonal profile of the bitchin dogs, initiation of oestrus behaviour may be as early as 5 days before ovulation or as late as 3 days after ovulation. Ovulation occurs spontaneously about 2 days
after the preovulatory LH surge. Oocytes are ovulated as primary oocytes which undergo maturation slowly, over 2 or 3 days in the oviduct. Following oocyte maturation, many bitches remain
fertile for 3 days or longer Dog sperm may survive in the female tract for up to 8 days and still retain motility. In some cases, sperm can survive in the bitch for 5 days before ovulation and still
result in fertilization and pregnancy. The lengthy fertile life spans of the spermatozoa and maybe the mature oocytes may explain the high fertility rates (>90%) often obtained in commercial
dog breeding facilities. Ovulation is timed clinically by using serum progesterone assays to detect rapid preovulatory luteinization which occurs during the preovulatory LH surge, or by
monitoring the vulval detumescence and vaginal wrinkling that accompany the preovulatory decline in estradiol. Ovulation has also been timed using ultrasound to detect the loss of the
anechoic appearance of preovulatory follicular fluid. Ovulation can be timed retrospectively as having occurred 5-7 days before the decline in vaginal cornification at the end of oestrus. Ovarian
and plasma progesterone in this species begins to increase from around the same period estradiol begins to decrease. This happens approximately 24-48 hours before the LH surge. In fact this
increase of progesterone appears to be required for the LH surge to occur. Concannon demonstrated that if progesterone does not increase and then the progesterone / estradiol ratio does not
change the LH surge may not be observed and ovulation may not occur. This is sometime observed in clinical conditions where prolonged pro-oestrus and follicular cysts are present. Following
this pre-ovulatory luteinization progesterone continues to increase to reach maximum values around days 20-30 and then slowly decreases to reach basal values sometime during anoestrus. In
fact progesterone decrease is slow and if values below 1 ng are observed from around days 60-70 after the LH surge (defining this way the end of diestrus), a deep look into serum
progesterone concentration allows for the observation that the lowest plasmatic levels of progesterone (around 10-50 pg/ml) are only observed in mid- to late anoestrus. This observation has
been confirmed simultaneously by Jeffcoate and our laboratory examining ovarian progesterone contents in anoestrus. It appears clearly that ovarian progesterone content is never basal before
days 130-160 of the cycle. The role of this progesterone continuous production by the corpus luteum with regard to oestrous cycle regulation remains to be determined. The corpus luteum is
an ephemeral endocrine gland appearing after rapid growth and differentiation of both theca and granulosa cells. To survive, the luteal cells are dependent of different substances called
"luteotropins." The luteal function is regulated by endocrine, paracrine or autocrine luteotropins. The main luteotropins are: LH and prolactin arriving from the pituitary. Indeed, it was
demonstrated that hypophysectomy induced immediate abortion in pregnant animals and in non pregnant animal a dramatic drop of plasmatic progesterone (Concannon, 1980, Okkens et al.,
1986). The reality of a dynamic luteal regulation in bitch has not yet been established nor studied. However, the relative dependency of the corpus luteum to LH and prolactin seems to be
different during the different period of pregnancy. Indeed, the corpus luteum seems to be more independent during the first third of pregnancy and the closest to the LH surge you are the more
independent the corpus luteum seems to be. Before day 10, hypophysectomy is unable to induce corpus luteum functional arrest (Concannon, 1980, Okkens et al., 1986), similarly corpus
luteum remains resistant to several indirect luteolytic agents like dopaminergic agonists (bromocriptine Concannon et al., 1987) or GnRH antagonists (Vickery et al., 1987, 1988), and direct like
prostaglandin F2a (Concannon et Hansel, 1977). The reasons for this relative and apparent independence of CL during the first third and may be half of pregnancy are still not yet elucidated.
This appear to be independent of LH or prolactin receptors variations as Fernandes et al. (1987) observed a constant expression of both receptors during luteal phases in non pregnant animals,
Recently it was demonstrated that if progesterone concentration appears similar in blood from pregnant and non-pregnant diestrus animals, plasma progesterone concentration does not mimic
corpus luteum progesterone production. Progesterone production is indeed significantly increase in pregnant animals comparatively to non-pregnant animals. However, metabolism and
consumption of progesterone is significantly higher reflected as demonstrated by Concannon and co-workers by a highly significantly increase plasma or faeces concentration of progesterone
metabolites. During pregnant diestrus a concomitant or closely related increase of relaxin and prolactin is observed. The role of relaxin, essentially placenta produced in this species, is not yet
clear. Relaxin may play a major role in furthering directly at the corpus luteum levels or indirectly through prolactin, progesterone secretion by the luteal cells of pregnant animals. Indeed, in
non-pregnant animals, no increase of prolactin nor relaxin nor progesterone synthesis and metabolism are observed. Many questions remain to be elucidated regarding bitch cycle and
regulation. However some are of major importance and either deserve studies or have been studied recently. 2.2. The main questions related to the bitch hormonal cycle and their
consequences for breeding management Termination of anoestrus. The bitch is characterised by a long and obligate anoestrus. The factors regulating termination of anoestrus and reinitiation
of the next oestrus cycle are not yet clear Regulation of corpus luteum during pregnant and non-pregnant diestrus. The most recent studies depict a time related and dose dependent corpus
luteum hormono-dependancy with prolactin being the major luteotropin. LH appearing more as a facultative luteotropin enhancing directly or indirectly progesterone secretion. Ovulation,
maturation, and fecundation of the oocytes in bitches. Recent data suggest that ovulation is probably synchronous for all follicles or supposed to occur on a very short period of time.
3.CONTROL OF THE REPRODUCTIVE CYCLEMethods for contraception, post-coital contraception and induction of abortion in dogs are necessary to prevent the oestrous cycle or the birth of
undesirable litters. There are numerous reasons to justify this need: pet overpopulation, preservation of the reproductive potential in animals devoted to breeding, travels, unwanted matings,
first estrous matings in young bitches, reproduction management, current health problems or expected problems during labor due to pelvis abnormalities or disproportion between the male and
female. Due to social, cultural, financial or ethical differences, great variations exist between countries in the management of these problems. In North America, the majority of bitches are
surgically sterilized and contraception is rarely used. Furthermore the products available to control reproduction are few. In the Scandinavian countries, surgical sterilization being ethically
controversial, medical contraception is the main technique for population control. Europe appears to sit in between these 2 extreme positions regarding surgery and is characterized by a
particularly large number of commercialised drugs available for reproductive purposes. Similarly, out label use of authorized drugs for humans or other species is relatively common in this part
of the world, The techniques for contraception have not dramatically changed during the last two decades but new methods and development (vaccination, implants, slow release, gene
targeting) will be warranted in a close future. 3.1 Cycle control by steroid hormonesMany different steroid hormones have been used with success to control reproductive behavior and cycle in
the bitch and queen. No real discovery has occurred in this field of medical contraception so far, however, things have to change and will change in a near future regarding the methods of
administrations of drugs already known and on the other hand regarding new drugs or new modes of administration. However, contraceptive steroids derivative of the female pathway, as
currently used in large dosages and long-acting formula, are known or supposed to promote acromegaly, insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus, or the development of the cystic endometrial
hyperplasia/pyometra complex, mammary development and tumors whereas androgens derivatives may induce external genitalia masculinization. Obesity and increased body weight have also
often been described as possible side effects. Therefore, the use of contraceptive steroids is of limited importance and particular attention is given on the route of administration, the dose, the
duration of treatment and the stage of the cycle at initiation of the treatment. Recent data have suggested that many of the side effects may be related to the misuse of these agents ( high
doses) rather than to the drugs per se. Indeed, for the vast majority of these "old" drugs, no data are available regarding the correct dose, as dose titration studies have not been performed to
demonstrate clearly the minimal amount of product needed to prevent the onset of estrous cycle. These studies are warranted and further results will probably demonstrate that a correct use at
an appropriate dosage of these drugs may not be associated with significant side effects or even more be beneficial . Misdorp, in studies on Progestogens and mammary tumors in dogs and
cats, pointed out a possible dose-related tumorigenic effect of progestins with the moderate doses being found to be associated with a slight increased risk for benign tumors but no
carcinogenic effect and the low doses being associated with a protective effect possibly resulting from the suppression of ovarian function leaving the animals at a level of exposure to sex
steroids that is less than under physiological conditions. Further studies are needed before condemning definitively the use of progestins as contraceptive agents in dogs but it is correct to say
that their current use is far from being the safest way to control reproduction in dogs and cats. 3.2 Non-steroidal control of cycleVaginal devices have been developed but with non constant or
with equivocal results in bitches. Inflammatory reactions or device expulsion result in an unacceptable failure rate. Intrauterine devices are so far not available due to the difficulty in
cannulating the canine cervix (reserved to specialists). Anti-fertility vaccines have been studied in dogs and in other species but with poor or non consistent results. The problems with GnRH,
LH and FSH immunization seem to be related to a poor consistency in response. ZP immunization appears to be irreversible but is still under investigation and development. The main concerns
are related to the immunization process (irritation, skin lesions), to the vaccine adjuvant and to the duration of immunity as well as its efficacy. To date, no contraceptive immunization protocol
for dogs has been submitted to large-scale clinical trials. However, this is certainly one route for future development. GnRH antagonists, if available, would certainly represent one of the main
interesting ways of controlling reproduction in dogs. By continuously blocking GnRH receptors at the pituitary level, these antagonists block the synthesis and release of the major portion of LH
and FSH. Cyclic control is inhibited whereas modification of the tonic constant release is questionable. Questions on the use of GnRH agonists or antagonists will have to be analyzed by taking
into account the new development regarding gonadotrophin secretion and regulation. Devices Vaccines 3.3 Treatments with GnRH agonists or antagonists John Verstegen, DVM, MSc, PhD
Department of Small Animal Reproduction Veterinary College, University of Liege Lie, Belgium