[edit History It was unquestionably a , deriving its origin from the in ; and the circumstances attending its foundation are related in detail by . He tells us that a colony from Megara, under
the command of a leader named , arrived in Sicily about the time that was founded by the colonists, and settled themselves first near the mouth of the river Pantagias, at a place called Trotilon
: Trotilus, modem ). From thence they removed to Leontini itself, where they dwelt for a time together with the Chalcidians; but were soon afterwards expelled by them, and next established
themselves on the promontory or peninsula of (Latin: Thapsus, moder Magnisi), near Syracuse. Hence they again removed after the death of Lamis, and, at the suggestion of , a Sicilian chief
of the surrounding country, finally settled at a place afterwards called the Hyblaean Megara. (Thuc. vi. 4.) follows a different tradition, as he describes the establishment of the Chalcidians at
and that of the Megarians at Hybla as contemporary, and both preceding the foundation of Syracuse, 734 BC. also adopts the same view of the subject, as he represents Megara as founded
about the same time with Naxos (735 BC), and before Syracuse. (Scymn. Ch. 271-76; Strab. vi. p. 269.) It is impossible to reconcile the two accounts, but that of Thucydides is probably the
most trustworthy. According to this the foundation of Megara may probably be placed about 726 BC. Professor Miller, in her reinvestigation of ancient source materials has determined that they
point to various dates of foundation from 758 BC (per the of ) to 728 BC (from her reconstructions of dates from Thucydides). Of its earlier history we have scarcely any information, but it
would appear to have attained to a flourishing condition, as 100 years after its foundation it sent out, in its turn, a colony to the other end of Sicily, where it founded the city of , which was
destined to rise to far greater power than its parent city. (Thuc. vi. 4; Scymn. Ch, 291; Strab. vi. p. 272.) Greek colony Megara Greece Thucydides Lamis Leontini Chalcidic Latin Brucoli Thapsos
Hyblon Scymnus Chius Naxos Strabo Chronikon Eusebius [4] Selinus Nothing more is known of Megara till the period of its destruction by , about 483 BC, who, after a long siege, made himself
master of the city by a capitulation; but, notwithstanding this, caused the bulk of the inhabitants to be sold into slavery, while he established the more wealthy and noble citizens at Syracuse.
(Herod. vii, 156; Thuc. vi. 4.) Among the persons thus removed was the celebrated comic poet , who had received his education at Megara, though not a native of that city. (, under ; viii. 3.)
According to Thucydides, this event took place 245 years after the foundation of Megara, and may therefore be placed about 483 BC. It is certain that Megara never recovered its power and
independence. Thucydides distinctly alludes to it as not existing in his time as a city, but repeatedly mentions the locality, on the sea-coast, which was at that time occupied by the Syracusans,
but which the general , during the (415-413 BC), proposed to make the head-quarters of their fleet; but his advice was not taken, and in the next spring the Syracusans fortified it. (Thuc. vi.
49, 96.) Gelon of Syracuse Epicharmus Suda Diog. Laert. Athenian Lamachus expedition against Syracuse From this time we meet with repeated mention of a place named Megara or Megaris (
p. 4. 6), which it seems impossible to separate from Hybla, and it is probable that the two were, in fact, identical. The site of this later Megara or Hybla may be fixed, with little doubt, at the
mouth of the river Alabus (modern ); but there seems much reason to suppose that the ancient city, the original Greek colony, was situated almost close to the remarkable promontory now
occupied by the city of . It is difficult to believe that this position, the port of which is at least equal to that of Syracuse, while the peninsula itself has the same advantages as that of , should
have been wholly neglected in ancient times; and such a station would have admirably served the purposes for which Lamachus urged upon his brother generals the occupation of the vacant
site of Megara (Thuc. vi. 49.). Scyl. Cantera Augusta [5] Ortygia [] edit Archaeology Excavations carried on in 1891 led to the discovery of the northem portion of the western town wall, which
in one section served at the same time as an embankment against floods it was apparently more conspicuous in the time of , (, Leiden, 1619) p. 133 of an extensive , about 1500 tombs of
which have been explored, and of a deposit of votive objects from a temple. The harbour lay to the north of the town. Philipp Cluver Sicilia antiqua necropolis Megara Hyblaea See , , (), Map
47. Richard Talbert Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World ISBN 0-691-03169-X The circumstance that there were so many towns called Hybla in Sicily probably arose from the fact
mentioned by , that there was a local divinity of the name. (Paus. v. 23. 6.)  Pausanias For example, , Britain's foremost classicist of the 19th century, begins to describe with an admixture of
locational and historic information from both and Megara Hyblaea. Caution should therefore be used when assuming reference to "Hybla" in an ancient source refers to this city.  william Smith
Hybla Major Hybla Gereatis M. Miller, (1970) , pp. 18-20, 276-78 * The Sicilian Colony Dates ISBN 0-87395-049-6 The modem city of this name dates only from the thirteenth century, being
founded in 1229 by the emperor from whom it derives its name. @ Frederick IT