U.S. Capital" redirects here. For the capital (city) of the United States, see . Washington, D.C. United States Capitol The west face of the United States Capitol Building (first ) of many The
serves as the for the , the of the . It is located in , on top of at the eastern end of the . Although not in the geographic center of the District of Columbia, the Capitol is the by which the
quadrants of the district are divided. Officially, both the east and west sides of the Capitol are referred to as "fronts." Historically, however, the east front was initially the side of the building
intended for the arrival of visitors and dignitaries.United States Capitol seat of government United States Congress legislative branch U.S. federal government Washington, D.C. Capitol Hill
National Mall origin Contents [] edit History Prior to establishing the nation's capital in , the and its predecessors had met in, , and a number of other locations. In September 1774, the
brought together delegates from the colonies in Philadelphia, followed by the which met from 1775 to 1781. Upon gaining independence, the was formed, and convened in Philadelphia until
June 1783, when a mob of angry soldiers converged upon Independence Hall, demanding payment for their service during the . Congress requested that , the , call up the militia to defend
Congress from attacks by the protesters. In what became known as the , Dickinson sympathized with the protesters and refused to remove them from Philadelphia. As a result, Congress was
forced to flee to on June 21, 1783, and met in and , before ending up in . Washington, D.C. United States Congress Philadelphia New York City [1] First Continental Congress Second Continental
Congress Congress of the Confederation American Revolutionary War John Dickinson governor of Pennsylvania Pennsylvania Mutiny of 1783 Princeton, New Jersey [2] Annapolis Trenton New
York City The was established upon ratification of the in 1789. New York City remained home to Congress until 1790, when the was passed to pave way for a permanent capital. The decision to
locate the capital was contentious, but helped broker a compromise in which the Federal government would take on war debt incurred during the , in exchange for support from northern states
for locating the capital along the . As part of the legislation, Philadelphia was chosen as a temporary capital for ten years, until the nation's capital in Washington, D.C. would be ready. United
States Congress United States Constitution [3] Residence Act Alexander Hamilton American Revolutionary War Potomac River [4] Design for the U.S. Capitol, "An Elevation for a Capitol", by
James Diamond was one of many submitted in the 1792 contest, but not selected. was given the task of creating the city plan for the new capital, which was to cover ten square miles. L'Enfant
chose Jenkins Hill as the site for the Capitol Building, with a grand boulevard connecting it with the President's House, and a public space stretching westward to the Potomac River. In reviewing
UEnfant's plan, insisted the legislative building be called the "Capitol", rather than "Congress House". The word "Capitol" comes from , meaning city on a hill and is associated with the to on . In
addition to coming up with a city plan, L'enfant had been tasked with designing the Capitol and President's House, however he was let go in February 1792 over disagreements with and the
commissioners, and there were no plans at that point for the Capitol. Pierre Charles L'Enfant [5] Thomas Jefferson Latin Roman temple Jupiter Optimus Maximus Capitoline Hill [6] George
Washington [7] [] edit Design competition In spring 1792, Thomas Jefferson proposed a design competition to solicit designs for the Capitol and the President's House, and set a four-month
deadline. The prize for the competition was $500 and a lot in the federal city. At least ten individuals submitted designs for the Capitol; however the drawings were regarded as crude and
amateur, reflecting the level of architectural skill present in the United States at the time. The most promising of the submissions was by , a trained French architect. However, Hallet's designs
were overly fancy, with too much French influence, and were deemed too costly. [8] Stephen Hallet [9] [10] A late entry by amateur architect was submitted on January 31, 1793, to much
praise for its "Grandeur, Simplicity, and Beauty" by President Washington, along with praise from Thomas Jefferson. Thornton was inspired by the east front of the , as well as the for the center
portion of the design. Thornton's design was officially approved in a letter, dated April 5, 1793, from George Washington. In an effort to console Hallet, the commissioners appointed him to
review Thornton's plans, develop cost estimates, and serve as superintendent of construction. Hallet proceeded to pick apart and make drastic changes to Thornton's design, which he saw as
amateur with numerous problems and high costs to build. In July 1793, Jefferson convened a five-member commission, bringing Hallet and Thornton together, along with , to address problems
with and revise Thomton's plan. Hallet suggested changes to the floor plan, which could be fitted within the exterior design by Thornton. The revised plan was accepted, except that Jefferson
and Washington insisted on an open recess in the center of the East front, which was part of Thornton's original plan. William Thornton Louvre Pantheon [11] [12] [13] [14] James Hoban [15]
[16] [17] The original design by Thornton was later modified by and then . The current dome and the and wings were designed by and , a German immigrant, and were completed under the
supervision of . Benjamin Latrobe Charles Bulfinch House Senate Thomas U. Walter August Schoenborn [18] Edward Clark [19] [] edit Construction The Capitol when first occupied by
Congress, 1800 L'Enfant secured the lease of at and along in for use in the and outer walls of the Capitol in November 1791. Surveying was underway soon after the Jefferson conference plan
for the Capitol was accepted. A ceremony for the Capitol took place on September 18, 1793. George Washington, dressed in attire, laid the , which was made by silversmith . quarries Wigginton
Island Aquia Creek Virginia foundations [20] [21] groundbreaking masonic cornerstone Caleb Bentley [22] [23] Construction proceeded with Hallet working under supervision of James Hoban,
who was also busy working on construction of the . Despite the wishes of Jefferson and the President, Hallet went ahead anyway and modified Thornton's design for the East front and created a
square central court that projected from the center, with flanking wings which would house the legislative bodies. Hallet was dismissed by Jefferson on November 15, 1794. was hired on
October 15, 1795 as superintendent of construction, but resigned three years later in May 1798, due to dissatisfaction with Thornton's plan and quality of work done thus far. White House [24]
George Hadfield [25] The Senate wing was completed in 1800, while the House wing was completed in 1811. However, the House of Representatives moved into the House wing in 1807.
Though the building was incomplete, the Capitol held its first session of United States Congress on November 17, 1800. The legislature was moved to Washington prematurely, at the urging of
President in hopes of securing enough Southem votes to be re-elected for a second term as president. John Adams [26] [] edit War of 1812 Not long after the completion of both wings, the
Capitol was partially burned (see ) by the on August 24, 1814, during the . Reconstruction began in 1815 and was completed by 1819. Construction continued through to 1864, with the
addition of the center Rotunda area and the first dome of the Capitol. Architect Benjamin Latrobe is principally connected with the original construction and many innovative interior features;
his successor, Charles Bulfinch, also played a major role, such as the design of the first dome. Burning of Washington British War of 1812 Main article: United States Capitol dome The building
was expanded dramatically in the 1850s. The original timber-framed of 1818 would no longer be appropriately scaled. Thomas U. Walter was responsible for the wing extensions and the
"wedding cake" cast-iron dome, three times the height of the original dome and 100 feet (30 m) in diameter, which had to be supported on the existing masonry piers. Like 's dome at (which
he had visited in 1838), Walter's dome is double, with a large in the inner dome, through which is seen painted on a shell suspended from the supporting ribs, which also support the visible
exterior structure and the that supports the , a colossal statue that was added to the top of the dome in 1863. The weight of the for the dome has been published as 8,909,200 pounds
(4,041,100 kg). dome Mansart Les Invalides oculus The Apotheosis of Washington tholos Freedom cast-iron Inauguration of , March 4, 1861, on the East Front, beneath the unfinished capitol
dome. Abraham Lincoln When the Capitol was expanded in the 1850s, some of the construction labor was carried out by "who cut the logs, laid the stones and baked the bricks". The original
plan was to use workers brought in from Europe; however, there was a poor response to recruitment efforts, and free and slave composed the majority of the work force. slaves [27] African
Americans [28] of east side of the Capitol, 1846. Daguerrotype When the dome of the Capitol was finally completed, it was significantly larger than the original plan, and its massive visual
weight overpowered the proportions of the columns of the East , built in 1828. The East Front of the Capitol building was rebuilt in 1904, following a design of the architects , who also designed
the Senate and House office buildings. A marble duplicate of the East Front was built 33.5 feet (10.2 m) from the old Front during 1958-1962, and a connecting extension incorporated what
formerly was an outside wall as an inside wall. In the process, the were removed, and landscape designer created a suitable setting for them in a large meadow at the , where they are
combined with a reflecting pool in an ensemble that reminds some visitors of . Besides the columns, hundreds of blocks of the original stone were removed and are stored behind a National
Park Service maintenance yard in Rock Creek Park. Portico Carr re and Hastings sandstone Corinthian columns Russell Page National Arboretum Persepolis The Capitol draws heavily from other
notable buildings, especially churches and landmarks in Europe, including the dome of in the , in and in . On the roofs of the Senate and House Chambers are flagpoles that fly the when either
is in session. St. Peter's Basilica Vatican St. Paul's Cathedral London Saint Isaac's Cathedral Saint Petersburg [] citation needed U.S. flag On June 20, 2000, ground was broken for the , which
subsequently opened on December 2, 2008 . Since 2001, the East Front of the Capitol (site of most until broke tradition in 1981) has been the site of construction for this massive underground
complex, designed to facilitate a more orderly entrance for visitors to the Capitol. (When construction is complete, the East Front will be restored to its earlier, pre-pavement appearance.) Prior
to the center being built, visitors to the Capitol had to queue on the parking lot and ascend the stairs, whereupon entry was made through the massive sculpted Columbus Doors, through a
small (with cramped security) and thence directly into the Rotunda. The new underground facility will provide a grand entrance hall, a visitors theater, room for exhibits, and dining and
restroom facilities, in addition to space for building necessities such as an underground . Capitol Visitor Center [29] Presidential Inaugurations Ronald Reagan narthex service tunnel [] edit
Interior The building is marked by its central above a and two wings, one for each chamber of Congress: the north wing is the Senate chamber and the south wing is the House of
Representatives chamber. Above these chambers are galleries where visitors can watch the Senate and House of Representatives. It is an example of the style. The statue on top of the dome is
the . dome rotunda neoclassical architecture Statue of Freedom [30] Underground tunnels (and even a private ) connect the main Capitol building with each of the in the surrounding complex.
All rooms in the Capitol are designated as either S (for Senate) or H (for House), depending on whether they are north (Senate) or south (House) of the . Similarly, rooms in the Congressional
office buildings are designated as HOB (for House Office Building, which are all south of the Capitol) or SOB (for Senate Office Building, which are all north of the Capitol). Additionally, all
addresses in Washington, D. C. are designated NE, NW, SE, or SW, in relation to the Rotunda. (Since the Capitol Rotunda is not located in the center of the District it is slightly farther east and
south the four D.C. quadrants are not the same shape and size.) underground railway Congressional office buildings Rotunda [] citation needed