[] edit History ABC's involvement with NASCAR began in the days of , in which it presented some of the biggest races in . One of its events was the . ABC showed the last half of the race,
except in , when it showed the first 30 laps and then came back for the wild finish, in which edged out with both cars sliding sideways across the track. The race TV rights went to in . ABC's
Wide World of Sports [1] stock car racing Daytona 500 1976 David Pearson Richard Petty CBS Sports 1979 ESPN began showing NASCAR races in , with the first event being at . The last of its
265 telecasts (that number includes some on ) was the fall race (now the ). 1981 North Carolina Speedway ABC Sports 2000 Atlanta Pep Boys Auto 500 [] edit General information Currently,
ESPN and ABC splits the second half of the (formerly NEXTEL Cup) schedule, while ESPN2 airs most of the (formerly Busch Series) schedule. Sprint Cup Nationwide Series Each race telecast
begins with . is the usual host, with and providing commentary. NASCAR Countdown Allen Bestwick Brad Daugherty Rusty Wallace In addition to the races, ESPN2 airs a daily show called ,
which is similar to and . It will air Monday through Friday at 6:00 p.m. . The show premiered on , 2007. will move to 5:00 p.m. on Monday, July 21. NASCAR Now Baseball Tonight NFL
Primetime ET February 5 NASCAR Now ET In 2007, 29 of the 35 Busch races aired on ESPN2, with the other five airing on ABC. ESPN2 started its coverage with the at on , 2007. ABC's first
Busch race was the at Las Vegas on . The first race telecast was the on on ESPN. The next 5 races aired on ESPN and the Richmond race and the final 10 races (the ) appeared on ABC. Orbitz
300 Daytona International Speedway February 17 Sam's Town 300 March 10 NEXTEL Cup Allstate 400 at the Brickyard July 29 Chase for the NEXTEL Cup In 2008, the Nationwide Series
schedule was reallocated, with four races on ABC, six on ESPN, and 25 on ESPN2. There is no change in the number of Sprint Cup events, the schedule of races, or the specific channels on
which they appear. (Originally, the number of NNS races on ESPN and ESPN2 were four and 27, respectively, but in June 2008 two race telecasts were shifted to ESPN.) [2] It had earlier been
reported that was not allowed to cover the Nationwide Series races due to a rule, as he also owns the in that series. However, as listed below, Wallace is one of the main analysts, but called
only 25 of the 35 races. called the other 10; he debuted at the at on . Rusty Wallace conflict of interest #66 team Dale Jarrett O'Reilly 300 Texas Motor Speedway April 14 [] edit 2008 changes
@ As mentioned above, Bestwick and Wallace were moved to the pit studio from other locations. Dale Jarrett is moving into the booth alongside of and . is taking Bestwicks spot on pit road. Dr.
Jerry Punch Andy Petree Shannon Spake , former anchor, became the new host of when it returned on , 2008. Bestwick and will also take turns on some editions. Nicole Manske SPEED
Channel NASCAR Now February 4 Ryan Burr The Monday version of is a roundtable show, similar to the old show that was on . Bestwick hosts the roundtable; he is also the former host of the
SPEED program. The panelists rotate and have included , ,,, and .NASCAR Now Inside NEXTEL Cup SPEED Channel Mike Massaro Johnny Benson Boris Said Ray Evernham Ricky Craven [] edit
Production All races are presented in , and all cameras, including those in the race cars, are capable of sending out HD pictures. high-definition At the at on , , unveiled a new feature, "Full
Throttle". In this feature, which takes place on one restart a race, the audio is provided by various team communications between drivers, crew chiefs, and spotters. Typically, this lasts for
about one lap. This frequency is reduced from its earlier use, which was at the green flag and most restarts. Bashas' Supermarkets 200 Phoenix International Raceway April 20 2007 NASCAR on
ESPN [] edit Coverage and other controversies [] edit General Many visitors to forums and blogs such as complained that the coverage seen on ESPN and its related networks were not up to
the standards set by the earlier version of network coverage. Their biggest complaints were excessive commercials, bored announcers, abuse of production technology, and language that
seemed to talk down to them. Many said that they had found alternate means of racing coverage, including , radio broadcasts, and NASCAR.com. Some were even looking forward to the retumn
of , despite the inherent to that portion of the racing season. The Daly Planet NASCAR Hot Pass NASCAR on FOX gimmicks The many changes made in 2008, specifically the removal of on-air
personalities with no previous NASCAR backgrounds and the reassignment of Wallace, may have come in response to these complaints. Commentators often seem to be quite biased towards
or against drivers on ESPN's NASCAR broadcasts, as with most of the network's racing broadcasts. At the , just after the finish, the station listened in on winner 's radio as he said "It was below
the yellow line, it was belo-" when he was cut off, appearing intentional. Punch often seemingly argued with Petree and Jarrett over whether or not the pass was illegal. This was one of many
cases where ESPN analysts have shown bias. 2008 AMP Energy 500 Tony Stewart [] edit Network pre-emptions and relocations ESPN has juggled TV coverage between networks often due to
other sports commitments. The most extreme example was the on , 2007, for which was on,, the and on ESPN, and the race itself moved to ESPN2 just before the green flag. This was due to
airings of the and a tournament. In fact, since NASCAR on ESPN returned in 2007, has started on a network other than ESPN2 before Busch/Nationwide Series races eight times, six in 2007
and two in 08. Carfax 250 August 18 NASCAR Countdown ESPN Classic invocation national anthem Little League World Series Scrabble NASCAR Countdown On , 2007, the end of the , part of ,
was moved to ESPN2 when a rain delay went past 6 p.m. ET, the end of the allotted broadcast window. This was in contrast to Fox and NBC coverage, which typically stayed on those stations
even if the races ran long past the expected time. September 30 LifeLock 400 that season's Chase On March 15, 2008, the moved from ABC to at 6:15 p.m. so that ABC could show in the
Eastem and Central time zones. The race was in a at the time and it was not resumed. Sharpie MINI 300 ESPN Classic World News Saturday rain delay On May 2, 2008, the was moved from
ESPN2 to ESPN Classic due to ESPN2's commitment to cover game 6 of the - first-round playoff series. Because ESPN Classic has a much more limited potential audience than ESPN or ESPN2,
NASCAR asked to simulcast the race, and it agreed. ESPN2 then rebroadcast the race in its entirety after the basketball game. A similar arrangement was reached for the , scheduled for at
Lipton Tea 250 Cleveland Cavaliers Washington Wizards NBA SPEED Channel [4] Kroger on Track for the Cure 250 October 2008 Memphis Motorsports Park [5] On , 2008, the conclusion of the
aired on ESPN2 because the race exceeded the allowable broadcast window due to two red-flag delays. ABC affiliates in the and aired instead, while those in the and time zones stayed with
race coverage, with ESPN2 serving as a simulcast. November 9 Checker O'Reilly Auto Parts 500 Eastern Central time zones America's Funniest Home Videos Mountain Pacific [6] [] edit Local
station pre-emptions Several stations chose to pre-empt for local news. KABC has done so before every Saturday night race, and also did it before the , a Sunday-afternoon event, to show
from to fulfill an programming requirement. in and in also did so at least once in 2007. NASCAR Countdown 2007 Ford 400 The Suite Life of Zach and Cody the Disney Channel E/I WPLG Miami,
Florida KSAT-TV San Antonio, Texas At the other end of the scale, in left the on to launch its nightly late newscast at 10 p.m. and did not return. Topeka is located about 60 miles from , the
hometown of NASCAR Cup driver (and 2007 Chase participant) . KSAT also aired a brief news update, which came during a , but returned in time for the checkered flag. KTKA Topeka, Kansas
2007 Bank of America 500 October 13 Central time Emporia Clint Bowyer red flag The pre-race for the was not seen on at least seven stations: KABC,KSAT, in , in, in, in, and in . All of them
aired newscasts, except for WXYZ, which aired a charity fundraiser. 2008 Bank of America 500 WPVI Philadelphia WXYZ-TV Detroit WEWS Cleveland WFTS the Tampa Bay area KXLY-TV
Spokane, Washington [8] The final eight laps of the were not shown on , the ABC affiliate in . The station cut away at 4 p.m. to show a debate between the major party candidates for the
election for the state's First District of the . The ending was shifted to ESPN2, but only those receiving KOAT on local cable (mostly ) were able to see it; those who receive the station via
satellite continued to get the national feed of ESPN2. On the same day, KXLY went off the air on the day of the race due to a transmitter problem, so obviously there was no telecast back to
that area. 2008 Pep Boys Auto 500 KOAT Albuquerque, New Mexico Mountain time United States House of Representatives Comcast [9] [] citation needed [] edit Missing race endings On, ,
the final five laps of the NBS race at were not televised by . The reason was that a path was somehow eliminated, preventing the at the network headquarters (ironically in ; the track is in )
from re-transmitting the event to and providers. Instead, viewers saw a blank screen, then the ESPN2 logo "," then some commercials. By the time the problem was rectified, the race was over,
with as the winner. , the lap-by-lap announcer, apologized for the error immediately and the final two laps were shown on replay unedited. In addition, the first rebroadcast showed the same
laps as they were intended to be broadcast - with on-screen ticker and sponsorship bug - just after 4:30 a.m. ET the next morning. An ESPN spokesman blamed a "human error" of an
unspecified nature. August 24 2007 Food City 250 Bristol Motor Speedway ESPN2 satellite uplink master control Bristol, Connecticut Bristol, Tennessee cable satellite screensaver Kasey Kahne
Jerry Punch GEICO [10] With nine laps remaining in the , one or more feeds of ESPN2 on suddenly cut off and was replaced by a static screen of the channel's logo, with audio from 's channel
By the time the picture returned, the race was over and celebrated his first win in the series, by then renamed Nationwide Series. The exact cause of the failure is unknown. Blogger John M.
Daly blamed the problem on an error in the routing system in which the picture is sent to master control, and that neither ESPN2HD nor cable companies were affected. However, on a message
board dealing with TV auto racing, moderator Cheryl Lauer reported that the opposite had happened to her, that HD was out while SD was broadcasting normally. She thought the problem was
due to a complication in testing signals from a new satellite, D11. 2008 Federated Auto Parts 300 DirecTV XM Satellite Radio Top Tracks Brad Keselowski [11] [12] [] edit Other problems/issues
@ Due to commitments - and an exceedingly long race which had 26 - coverage of the NBS ended the moment that took the checkered flag to win the race. There was no post-race interview
with Reutimann, summary of the finishing order, or any other usual post-race programming. No interview aired on or , either, another decision that rankled some long-time fans. college football
caution flags October 27 Sam's Town 250 David Reutimann ESPNEWS SportsCenter [13] In addition, some drivers had testy relationships with ESPN reporters. was fined and had points taken
away after his win at the Allstate 400; he used an in his post-race interview. During it, he implied unfair treatment by the network in the past. Also, looked very uneasy in his interview with at
the ; Massaro ran a lengthy talk after Earnhardt Jr. dropped out with engine failure. Tony Stewart obscenity Dale Earnhardt, Jr. Mike Massaro Chevy Rock and Roll 400 [14] Most of the races
broadcast on had very minimal or no post-race coverage. Several times, ESPN only interviewed the winner and 2nd place drivers. The most likely explanation is that the next program is,
typically, or a local newscast; the network wants to start the newscast as soon as possible. ESPN on ABC Sunday ABC World News At the at , the majority of the coverage was focused on and
There was only one mention when led the opening laps of the race and did not air several of the lead changes or mention them on air. In addition, during the Busch Series race at Texas, the
final laps were broadcast from an in-car camera of points championship leader . ESPN did not air the finish of the race where won and instead stayed with an in-car shot of Edwards through the
finish. 2007 Dickies 500 Texas Motor Speedway Jeff Gordon Jimmie Johnson Juan Pablo Montoya ESPN on ABC O'Reilly Challenge Carl Edwards Kevin Harvick At the at Talladega, ESPN on ABC
did not air the final lead change as they were covering a battle a little deeper in the field. made the race winning move without mention of the lead change on ESPN on ABC until well after it
had happened. Gordon won the race. 2007 UAW-Ford 500 Jeff Gordon [] edit Miscellany At both the Phoenix and NBS races in 2007, the entire broadcast booth (, and Jarrett) consisted of
graduates of in . On April 20, they wore orange and maroon ribbons to honor the victims of the the previous Monday. (Of course, Punch, Jarrett and Petree have been reunited for the entire
2008 season.) Talladega Dr. Jerry Punch Andy Petree Newton-Conover High School North Carolina Virginia Tech massacre [] edit Ultimate NASCAR In addition to race coverage, ESPN has aired
a series of programs called . The series began in , when the network began to air a series of 100 one-minute vignettes highlighting NASCAR's most important moments as selected by a panel of
experts. The vignettes aired every day until July 29. These moments are also recounted in a companion book published by the network.Ultimate NASCAR April 2007 [15] In , ESPN aired a
series of related . Three of them were countdown shows, ranking the greatest drivers, races, and rivalries in the sport's history. The other shows were "The Explosion (a general overview),
"The Dirt" (the origins of NASCAR), "The Cars" (the evolution of the NASCAR race car), "The Families" (an in-depth look at the Allison, Earnhardt and Petty families), and "Speed and Danger
(in which NASCAR drivers discuss the risks they take). July 2007 documentaries [] edit Entertainment On , , it was announced that would be collaborating with on its coverage. The band
recorded a special live version of its song "*, as "an integral part of the network's telecasts in 2007." The song was typically played on the telecast between the and the command to start the
engines, and was also on a video package on on Monday evenings. However, ESPN decided to discard its use after 2007. November 2 2006 Aerosmith NASCAR on ESPN 2007 Back In The
Saddle NASCAR [16] national anthem NASCAR Now As part of coverage of the , sang "" over a themed music video. 2007 Pennsylvania 500 Rihanna Shut Up and Drive For the 2008
Nationwide Series season opener, the , the choir from that performed on the the previous December, led by country star , performed "to introduce the coverage on ESPN2. The song
recognized as the headquarters city of NASCAR. Camping World 300 Oklahoma City NBC reality game show Clash of the Choirs Blake Shelton Home Daytona Beach Also in 2008: The -based
group Slamm! has performed leading into the commercial break following pre-race ceremonies of the Nationwide Series races. Nashville, Tennessee percussion ' song "Long Gone" was part of
the coverage of the , promoting a new Disney-branded album. Billy Ray Cyrus 2008 Sunoco Red Cross Pennsylvania 500 The song "Last Man Standing" has often played as bumper music
during ABC's telecasts of the Chase. Trailer Choir [] edit Lineup variations In order to reduce the workload of announcers during the first half of the season, ESPN constantly changes the lineup
of those who cover the activities on the race track. In the 2007 season, ESPN used three different announcers (Punch, , and ), four different (Wallace, Petree, Jarrett, and ), nine different pit
reporters (, Bestwick, , ,,, , Spake, and ), six infield studio hosts (Musburger, Bestwick, Massaro, , , and ), and at least four infield studio analysts (Daugherty, Brewer, Wallace, and ). Three
times during the season, the network did not use an infield studio for , during the split races (where Nextel Cup and Busch Series were in different venues during the same weekend). Also,
none of the talent has been at every race. In 2007, Daugherty had the longest streak, being at every race until the at on . lap-by-lap Marty Reid Allen Bestwick color commentators Randy
Lajoie Jack Arute Dave Bums Gary Gerould Jamie Little Mike Massaro Marty Smith Vince Welch Chris Fowler Erik Kuselias Suzy Kolber Ray Evernham NASCAR Countdown Meijer 300 Kentucky
Speedway June 16 The main booth remained the same for all Sprint Cup races. In 2008, Jarrett was to be granted two months off from the end of April to the end of June to prepare for being
the analyst for all 17 Sprint Cup races. The exact team to be used at each race Is listed in an ESPN press release . on this page See below for a more detailed list of announcers and their roles.
@ [] edit Announcers (in 2008)