History Matching Process Transplant Process Myths Researchers began experimenting with organ transplantation on animals and humans in the 18th century. Over the years, scientists have
experienced many failures, but by the mid-20th century, they were performing successful organ transplants. Transplants of kidneys, livers, hearts, pancreata, intestine, lungs, and heart-lungs
are now considered routine medical treatment. In the last 20 years, important medical breakthroughs such as tissue typing and immunosuppressant drugs have allowed for a larger number of
organ transplants and a longer survival rate for transplant recipients. The most notable development in this area was Jean Borel's discovery of an immunosuppressant drug called Cyclosporine
in the mid-1970s. This drug was approved for commercial use in November 1983. Unfortunately, the need for organ transplants continues to exceed the supply of organs. But as medical
technology improves and more donors become available, the number of people who live longer and healthier lives continues to increase each year. Transplant Milestones in the United States
and Canada 1954 Dr. Joseph E. Murray, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, MA*First successful kidney transplant 1966 Drs. Richard Lillehei, William Kelly, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, MNFirst successful pancreas/kidney transplant 1967 Dr. Thomas Starzl, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, CO*First successful liver transplant 1968 Dr.
Richard Lillehei, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MNFirst isolated pancreas transplant 1968 Dr. Norman Shumway, Stanford University Hospital, Stanford, CAFirst successful heart
transplant 1981 Dr. Bruce Reitz, Stanford University Hospital, Stanford, CAFirst successful heart-lung transplant 1983 Dr. Joel Cooper, Toronto Lung Transplant Group, Toronto General
Hospital, Toronto Canada*First successful single lung transplant 1986 Dr. Joel Cooper, Toronto Lung Transplant Group, Toronto General Hospital, Toronto Canada*First successful double lung
transplant 1989 Dr. Christoph Broelsch, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, ILFirst successful living-related liver transplant 1990 Dr. Vaughn A. Starnes, Stanford University
Medical Center, Stanford, CAFirst successful living-related lung transplant *Transplant was the first of its kind in the world || | | | | | Policies Members About OPTN Donation & Transplantation
Data News Resources Text Based Version of this Site This Web site is designed, developed, and maintained by the under contract with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) and the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). We are committed to meeting and making this site accessible to all users. If you are using an accessibility reader and you
are experiencing technical issues with this page, please contact Patient Services at (888) 894-6361