please click here. Wahhabis and Saudi Arabia Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab was bor at 'Uyayna in 1703, the son of a judge . The boy memorized the by the time he was ten and studied the
the sayings of . He was educated in Medina, traveled, and taught for four years in Basra. He married a wealthy woman in Baghdad and inherited her property. He wrote and preached a strict
monotheism. When his father died in 1740, he replaced him as judge in Huraimala; but his preaching against debauchery provoked threats, and he fled to 'Uyayna. (qadi) Qur'an Hadith
Muhammad The Book of Unity (Kitab al-Tawhid) Ibn Abd al-Wahhab taught that any innovation beyond the or accepted was the worst sin and found support for this in the Hanbali legal
doctrine. He criticized magic, sorcery, fortune-telling, invocations, amulets, talismans, and even the shrines of local saints. Others called his followers Wahhabis, but they considered themselves
the true Muslims or unitarians . He taught that the (alms-tax) was mandatory rather than voluntary. He denounced greed and usury, believing that the poor are blessed. Al-Wahhab taught
equality and objected to servile hand-kissing. His ethical values included keeping promises, being patient, not lying, not slandering, not gossiping, not being indiscreet, and helping the blind. He
particularly condemned meanness, envy, perjury, and cowardice. Al-Wahhab was rather intolerant of Muslims who did not agree with him and considered them infidels, treating them worse than
Jews or Christians. His followers destroyed the gravestones and monuments to saints, cut down sacred trees, and burned the books of their adversaries. He banned all pilgrimages except to the
Ka'ba in Mecca. Wahhab forbade the use of tobacco, hashish, rosaries, music, and dancing even as practiced in devotion by the Sufis. He rejected the Hanafi doctrine of the Ottoman Sunnis and
promoted Arabian nationalism against the Turks.(bid'a) Qur'an hadith(al-muwahhidun)zakat When he arrived at 'Uyayna, Ibn Abd al-Wahhab won over the emir Uthman ibn Hamad to
spreading his unitarian doctrine by force. They demolished local shrines, and 600 armed men destroyed the gravestone of one of the prophet's companions while many pilgrims were there. He
ordered a woman stoned to death for the sin of fornication. Hearing of this, al-Hasa ruler Sulayman al-Humaidi ordered Uthman to kill al-Wahhab. Uthman made him go into exile, and
al-Wahhab moved to al-Diriya in 1744. There he formed an alliance with Muhammad ibn Saud and made him stop collecting taxes. Lacking even basic provisions, they began raiding neighbors
with one-fifth going to Ibn Saud and equal shares to the warriors with mounted men getting double. Property thus taken from "polytheists went to the "real Muslims." Thirty Wahhabi went to
Mecca to ask permission to participate in the pilgrimage, but the Hijazis considered their doctrines heresy.'ulama_'Uyayna emir Uthman commanded the united forces until he was killed by
Wahhabis suspecting him of plotting with al-Hasa ruler Muhammad ibn Afaliq in 1750. 'Uyayna became dependent on al-Diriya and the Saudis. Sulayman ibn Abd al-Wahhab opposed his
brother's teachings and led a revolt at Huraimala; but Muhammad ibn Saud's son Abd al-Aziz took over Huraimala with 820 men, as Sulayman fled to Sudair. Al-Diriya soldiers built a fortress at
Riyadh, and in the 1760s they invaded al-Hasa territory. In 1764 Bedouin tribes from Najram killed 500 of Abd al-Aziz's men and captured 200. Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab quickly
negotiated their release during an armistice. The next year al-Hasa's Arayar besieged al-Diriya unsuccessfully. Muhammad ibn Saud died and was succeeded by Abd al-Aziz. In 1769 Cairo ruler
Ali Bey proclaimed Egypt independent and annexed Hijaz, but he fled to Acre two years later. By 1770 most of Qasim had joined the new religion, and in 1773 Riyadh was abandoned to the
Wahhabis. By then the Wahhabis had killed about 5,000 people. The next decade was spent conquering all of Najd. Sulayman and his family were taken to al-Diriya, where he was not allowed
to preach. The Wahhabis expanded in all directions to Lower Iraq, Hijaz, Yemen, Oman, and Syria. Their ally Thuwaini seized Basra and sent a delegation to Istanbul asking to make him
governor; but in 1787 Baghdad's independent ruler Buyuk Sulayman attacked and defeated Thuwaini, who fled. In 1788 Saud ibn Abd al-Aziz was proclaimed the crown prince. The Wahhabis
raided al-Hasa annually; but after Sulayman ibn Ufaisan raided Qatar, al-Hasan was subjugated in 1792, the year Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab died. According to he taught the people of
al-Diriya how to make and use firearms. He had twenty wives and 18 children. Five of his sons and many of his grandsons became renowned (religious scholars).The Brilliance of the
Meteor'ulama In 1791 Saud ibn Abd al-Aziz gained some 100,000 sheep and goats and thousands of camels raiding Mecca's allies Shammar and Mutair. Mecca sharif Ghalib ibn Musaid fought
back in 1795, but the Wahhabis routed his force and gained twice as many livestock. Thuwaini ibn Abdallah led attacks against the Wahhabis until his black slave, a fanatical Wahhabi, murdered
him in 1797. The next year Ghalib's army with Turkish, Egyptian, and Maghribi mercenaries was defeated again, and during a truce the sharif gave the Wahhabis permission to perform the
(pilgrimage). Ali Kahya led a force from Baghdad, but he met resistance and agreed to a truce with Saud. When Oman's Sultan ibn Ahmad attacked Bahrain in 1801, they appealed to al-Diriya.
The Wahhabis defeated the Muscatis and made Bahrain a vassal state. A Wahhabi army also attacked Oman and won over the port of Ras al-Khaima. In 1802 the rulers of al-Diriya captured
Karbala in Iraq, and 12,000 Wahhabis destroyed Shi'i holy places, killing about 2,000 and plundering. The Wahhabis continued to raid Iraq in the next few years but met with many defeats. hajj
 Ghalib's despotic rule in Mecca was resented, and the Wahhabis captured towns in Hijaz easily. In April 1803 the Wahhabis performed the but then destroyed all the mausoleums and
mosques with domes in Mecca. They appointed Ghalib's brother Abd al-Muhsin governor of Mecca and replaced the Turkish with one from al-Diriya. The Baghdad pasha informed Istanbul that
he was sending an army, and the Wahhabi army, suffering from disease, withdrew from Hijaz to al-Diriya, where Emir Abd al-Aziz ibn Muhammad ibn Saud was murdered by a Kurd in the Turaif
mosque during prayer. His son Saud came to al-Diriya and was acclaimed as the new ruler. The Wahhabis invaded Hijaz again with a confederation of tribes and defeated Ghalib's army of
10,000, seizing 2,500 firearms. Medina surrendered, and in November 1805 the Wahhabis entered Mecca again. The Wahhabis stopped Ottoman caravans from reaching Mecca even though
they offered more money.hajjgadi After Oman's Sultan ibn Ahmad was killed in a battle with the Ras al-Khaim fleet in 1804, his son Said eventually won a succession struggle with his brothers.
After losing men fighting the Saudis, he agreed to pay them tribute. The Saudi fleet also imposed duties on East India Company ships sailing between Bombay and Basra; but in 1809 a British
squadron defeated the Saudis' Omani allies and destroyed Ras al-Khaima. The Wahhabis sent missionaries to Yemen but had little success there. In 1810 Saud led a raid into Syria but did not
reach Damascus. The Saudis collected taxes in al-Hasa, and according to Ibn Bishr about a third of them were spent on maintaining their palace, the Wahhab family, and their entourage. Saud
had hundreds of male and female slaves. Burckhardt reported that of the revenues collected about a quarter was sent to the al-Diriya treasury, a quarter went to help paupers and public
services, and half provided for the soldiers. While promoting to conquer more territory, the Saudi rulers also settled intertribal conflicts in person by punishing offenders. The Saudis took
notable hostages to al-Diriya. All men between the ages of 16 and 60 were liable for military service, but only about one in ten was in the army. jihad After the Karbala raid of 1802 the
Wahhabis were not able to capture a fortified town in Iraq or Syria. Their cruelty stimulated determined resistance, and several campaigns had to be waged every year against rebelling tribes,
within their state. Despite their doctrine of helping the poor, most of the spoils of war went to the nobility in central Arabia. Ending the Ottoman pilgrimages devastated the economy in Hijaz,
and in 1810 commerce with Syria and Iraq was prohibited. Ottoman sultans Mustafa IV and Mahmud II turned to Egypt's Muhammad ali to reconquer the valued Hijaz. In 1811 he sent his
youngest son Tusun with a well trained army. The Egyptians quickly took Yanbu, but their army of 8,000 was defeated by a Wahhabi force more than twice as large. Money helped Tusun win
over local nomads, and his reinforced army the next year was able to capture Medina; he allowed its garrison of 7,000 to depart. In January 1813 the Egyptians captured Jidda, and Abdallah
ibn Saud withdrew the Wahhabi garrison from Mecca. The Turks celebrated for a week in Istanbul. went to Jidda, seized the custom-house assets, and arrested his ally Ghalib. This caused
sharifian families and Bedouin to flee to the Wahhabis, and Egyptian troops were defeated. So reduced taxes, distributed money to the poor, repaired holy monuments, and patronized the
Resuming the brought money from a Syrian caravan. Saud died in 1814; his son Abdallah succeeded him, while another son Faisal commanded the army. In January 1815 the Egyptians won a
major battle, and had hundreds of prisoners executed in Mecca. went back to Egypt, and the Wahhabis forced Tusun's army to withdraw from Qasim. sent his oldest son Ibrahim, who led the
conquest of Najd. He arrived at Medina in 1816, and by the end of the next year had won over Qasim. Abdallah surrendered al-Diriya in September 1818. Muhammad Ali ordered the Wahhabi
capital destroyed, and Abdallah was executed. Muhammad Ali Muhammad ali 'ulamahajj Muhammad Ali Muhammad Ali Muhammad Ali Ibrahim rejected an offer of assistance from George
Sadlier and ejected the British from Jidda in 1819. The Egyptian soldiers destroyed fortresses and defenses, drove off livestock, cut down palm trees, and devastated fields. Ibrahim left, and
Muhammad Ali's nephew Ahmad Shukri became governor of Arabia. Tribal anarchy broke out, and Ibn Muammar was put in charge of Najd. He tried to rebuild al-Diriya but was driven out in
1820 by Abdallah's son Turki, who moved on to Riyadh. sent Husain Bey, and he captured the Riyadh garrison. As the Egyptians were treacherously killing the prisoners, Turki escaped. The next
year Husain Bey offered land to al-Diriya citizens and then had his soldiers slaughter the 230 people gathered. Turki returned and raised enough forces in 1824 to besiege Riyadh and force the
Egyptians to retreat to Hijaz. Turki governed the Saudi kingdom until he was assassinated in 1834. He told his soldiers he would punish them if they took things from the people, and he
presided over an Islamic state emphasizing personal responsibility for oneself and to the community. He required that all agreements be respected even those with (Jews, Christians, and
Zoroastrians). Turki was succeeded by his son Faisal, whose soldiers captured and executed his father's assassin Mishari. Muhammad Ali dhimmis In 1835 sent more Egyptian troops to try to
conquer resistant Asir, but they were defeated too. Cairo's former police chief Ismail Bey led out more troops; Faisal offered to provide 5,000 camels to prevent an invasion, but the Egyptians
wanted 15,000. Ismail Bey entered Riyadh with Khalid ibn Saud, a brother of the late Abdullah. When the people of Najd realized that their submission had not stopped the violence and
plunder, they rebelled. Ismail's force of 7,000 was defeated at al-Hilwa in July 1837. Faisal besieged Riyadh for two months. In 1838 the Egyptians agreed to recognize Faisal's control over
eastern Arabia; but Khurshid Pasha artived and recognized Jabal Shammar ruler Abdallah ibn Rashid. Khurshid with 4,000 soldiers besieged Dilam and captured Faisal, who was sent to Egypt.
Egyptian advances toward Asir and Yemen caused the British to seize Aden in 1839. Finally the next year British power persuaded to withdraw Egyptian forces from Arabia. Muhammad Ali
Muhammad 'ali_ After Khurshid's forces departed, Emir Khalil was able to govern for only a year, because he was hated as an Egyptian puppet. In 1841 Ibn Thunayyan seized Riyadh, and the
last Egyptian garrison left. Ibn Thunayyan executed many adversaries and was unpopular. In 1843 Faisal escaped from Egypt and gradually won over Najd, taking Riyadh that summer; Ibn
Thunayyan was arrested and died in jail. Najdi forces took over Bahrain in 1844, and it continued to pay Riyadhi tribute even after it became a British protectorate in 1861. Faisal declared his,
son Abdallah his heir, and by the time he was 70 in 1865 Faisal had gone blind and could no longer govern. Bedouin rebellions continued during this era, especially in Qasim. After Faisal ibn
Turki died in 1865, Abdallah was supported by his brother Muhammad but challenged by his brother Saud. In 1870 Saud appealed to the Al Khalifa family in Bahrain for an attack on Qatar. By
allying with Ajman and Al Murra tribes, Saud ibn Faisal was able to conquer al-Hasa. Abdallah sent Muhammad ibn Faisal; but he was captured when the Subai nomads deserted to Saud. In
1871 Saud marched on Riyadh and defeated Abdallah; yet his Bedouin troops aroused tremendous resentment. Turks sent their navy and conquered al-Hasa, declaring that Najd was now an
Ottoman possession. Abdallah fled from the Turks when he learned they were going to take him to Baghdad. He retumed to Riyadh during a terrible famine and could not forge an alliance with
his brother Saud against the Turks. However, the Turks gave up al-Hasa in 1874 as too expensive to govern. Saud was unable to control the tribes; he was wounded in battle but died of
smallpox or was poisoned in January 1875. His brother Abd al-Rahman ibn Faisal became the ruler at Riyadh but only for one year until he was overthrown by Sauds sons. Meanwhile the state
of Jabal Shammar was gaining strength. Ottoman Decline 1730-1826 In 1730 after executing the grand vizier, the Janissaries brought Mahmud I (r. 1730-54) from the Cage and put the
abdicated Ahmed IIT in that restricted area. Ibrahim Mutefertika continued to promote military reform and European science. In his 1731 book he asked why the Europeans were surpassing the
Muslim nations. He described the three forms of government as monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy. He argued that the antiquated Turkish military organization placed the Ottoman empire
in peril. He criticized the tolerance of laziness and the indifference toward corruption. In the second part of the book he emphasized the importance of acquiring geographical knowledge, and in
the third part he described the new methods and techniques of western military science he believed the Turks should adopt.Rational Bases for the Polities of Nations French ambassador
Marquis de Villeneuve negotiated the remission of duties on French merchandise, and the new grand vizier Topal Osman favored French religious privileges. In a 1732 treaty the Turks ceded
Tabriz and other territory to Kerman but retained Shirvan, Daghistan, and Georgia. Two years later the Russians invaded the Crimea and captured Azov. In 1737 the Habsburgs demanded that
Moldavia and Wallachia be independent and that Bosnia and Serbia be ceded to them. Bosnia governor-general Hekimoglu Ali Pasha repelled the attack. When the Austrians recaptured the
Serbian fortress at Nish, the Ottomans went to war for their empire by marching on Belgrade. The Austrians agreed to demolish their new fortifications and leave the original Turkish walls. In
the 1739 treaty of Belgrade the Austrians gave up their claims to Serbia, Bosnia, and Wallachia. French mediation also persuaded Russia to restore their conquests in the Crimea, Moldavia, and
Bessarabia while they gained a little territory in the Ukraine. Russian ships were not permitted to use the Black Sea. In 1740 the Ottomans renewed their friendship treaty with France and
signed one with Sweden. In 1743 the Ottoman empire agreed to a treaty with Persia's Nadir Shah that returned to the borders of the 1639 Kasrisirin treaty. In 1742 the printing press that had
printed only twenty books in Turkish was shut down for the next forty years. Osman III succeeded his brother Mahmud in 1754 but was limited by his having been in the Cage, and he reigned
for only three years. The capable grand vizier Raghib Mehmed took over governing in 1757 and implemented westem improvements in harmony with existing institutions. He signed a treaty
with Prussia in 1761 and modernized the army and navy. Mustafa III (r. 1757-74) did not really begin ruling until Raghib died in 1763. Russia under Empress Catherine II began fortifying a
neutral zone between the Bug River and the Ukraine, and the Russian army burned down Balta near the Bessarabia frontier, killing Poles and Turks. Sultan Mustafa replaced the grand vizier with
Hamza Pasha, who gave the Russian envoy Obreskov an ultimatum to withdraw from Poland. Obreskov refused and was imprisoned as the Ottomans declared war on Russia. This
announcement gave Catherine time to mobilize five armies. Mehmed Emin was appointed grand vizier, but he was a man of the pen and did not understand military strategy. In 1769 the
Turkish army crossed the Danube into Moldavia but suffered setbacks and retreated. The Russians moved into Moldavia and Wallachia, resisted only by the Tatars. The next year the Russian
navy with English help went around Europe and invaded Greece, defeating the Ottoman fleet in the straits of Chios. The Russian siege of the Lemnos fortress was raised by the heroic efforts of
the corsair Hassan from Algiers, who had collected four thousand volunteers from Istanbul. In 1771 the Russians invaded both sides of the Crimea. By the end of the year Russia and the Turks
agreed to an armistice, but the in Istanbul opposed giving up the Crimea and threatened an insurrection. Baron de Tort instructed Ottoman forces in artillery and naval warfare. In 1773 the
Turks fought back in Bulgaria, but the Russians defeated them the next year. The Treaty of Kuchuk Kainarji recognized the independence of the Tatars in the Crimea and Bessarabia though with
the sultan as caliph, and it gave the Russians access to the Black Sea. The Russians agreed to withdraw their fleet from Greece, and Ottoman sovereignty over Georgia and Mingrelia in Asia and
over Wallachia and Moldavia in Europe was restored. However, Christians were granted freedom of religion, and the Russians the right of protecting them. After these defeats by the Russians,
the Ottoman diplomat Ahmed Resmi Efendi (1700-83) suggested that a declining empire should be content with its borders and pursue negotiation and peace instead of holy war.'ulama
Mustafa's brother Abdul Hamid (r. 1774-89) had been in the Cage 43 years when he ascended the throne. War had depleted the treasury, and he had no donative to offer the Janissaries. For
the next thirteen years he ruled in peace, resisting the temptation to intervene when Russians overthrew the Tatar khan Devlet Ghitrai in 1779. Their puppet khan allowed Catherine to annex
the Crimea in 1783. The khan was imprisoned and then released to the Turks, who beheaded him. Noble Tatars fought for their independence, but General Paul Potemkin's Russian army
massacred 30,000 of them, while tens of thousands fied into exile. A few years later Empress Catherine and Potemkin toured this region with Habsburg emperor Joseph II, instigating revolts in
the Ottoman empire. Istanbul declared war in 1787, because Austrians had tried to surprise the fortress at Belgrade. Admiral Hassan was recalled from Cairo to attack the Kinbum fortress, but
Russians led by General Alexander Suvarov defeated his invading force and the Ottoman fleet. @ large Ottoman army crossed the Danube, and Emperor Joseph misled his large army that
accidentally killed thousands of their own troops; on the retreat tens of thousands died of disease. Yet in 1789 the Austrians joined with the Russian army of Suvarov and invaded Bosnia and
Serbia, killing 25,000 civilians at Oczakov. This news made Abdul Hamid ill, and he died in May 1789. When young Selim IIT (r. 1789-1807) became sultan, he sent Hassan to lead the army;
but again he was defeated by Suvaroy, and Selim had Hassan executed to appease the panic in Istanbul. Joseph died in 1790, and his brother Leopold II, opposed to the war, signed a treaty
restoring the territory the Austrians had conquered. Russia continued the war against the Ottoman empire; but a change in policy in England created an alliance with Prussia and Holland to
preserve the Ottoman empire. The Turks wanted peace, and in 1791 Catherine agreed to relinquish the conquests west of the Dniester River. Influenced by the French revolution, Sultan Selim
promulgated a "New Order" . In 1791 he sent out instructions asking for memorials from top officials. The Naval Engineering School that had been founded in 1775 was reformed, and in 1795 a
new Military Engineering School opened. Most of the instructors were French officers, and students were required to leam the French language. A large library of European books included
Diderot's . The Ottoman empire began sending resident ambassadors to major capitals-first to London in 1793 and then in 1797 to Paris, Vienna, and Berlin. Their secretaries learned the
language and studied the customs. The New Order aimed to reform the military and government administration. Local governors had terms limited to three years so that they would be more
responsive to the people. Tax farms were abolished as the imperial government began collecting taxes directly. Land reform affected the and (large fiefs), and the incomes from vacant estates
retumed to the imperial treasury. The government controlled the grain trade. The grand vizier was required to consult the Divan (Council). A minister of the Divan administered a special
treasury for paying infantry, and new taxes were put on alcohol, tobacco, coffee, and other commodities. A Turk named Omar Agha had been captured in the Russian war, and he persuaded the
grand vizier to let him train a special corps by European methods. Their skills impressed the Sultan, but an attempt to reform the Janissaries caused a mutiny and had to be
cancelled.(Nizam-i-Jedid)Encyclopedietimarszeamets After Napoleon invaded Egypt in 1798, Selim III signed alliance agreements in January 1799 with Russia, England, and the Two Sicilies.
Frenchmen in Turkey were imprisoned. For the first time the Russian fleet was allowed to pass through the straits into the Mediterranean Sea, and the Austrian navy helped them expel the
French from the Ionian islands. Napoleon's army invaded Syria; but their siege of Acre failed, and they had to retreat back to Egypt with heavy losses. The French withdrew from Egypt, and in
the 1802 treaty of Amiens the British also relinquished Egypt to the Turks. That year the East India Company excluded the French from Oman and established permanent residency at Baghdad,
and the British opened a mail line via Aleppo to connect London with India. Istanbul liberated French prisoners and restored their property. Janissaries in Belgrade murdered the Ottoman
governor and took over the lands of the Turkish cavalry in Serbia. Oppressed Christians sent mayors to Istanbul, and Sultan Selim sent the Bosnian army to support the Serbian insurrection
against the Janissaries, whose four leaders were beheaded. The Serbians now wanted independence; they elected George Petrovic (Kara George) and appealed to the Russians as fellow
Christians. Czar Alexander was still allied with the Turks and advised the Serbians to appeal to Istanbul; but the Divan and the Sultan rejected their demands, imprisoned the delegates, and
sent three armies into Serbia. However, Kara George defeated them and expelled the Turkish garrisons from Belgrade and other fortresses.(sipahi) In 1805 Selim IIT recognized Napoleon as
Emperor, prompting Czar Alexander to ask to be recognized as the protector of Christians. Instead, Selim deposed the Phanariot hospodars from Wallachia and Moldavia, because he believed
they were Russian agents. When the Russian army marched into Moldavia and Wallachia in 1806, the Ottomans declared war on Russia. In 1807 Admiral Duckworth sailed British ships into the
Dardanelles and demanded that the Ottoman fleet surrender. Negotiations gave the Turks time to mount artillery and strengthen their fortifications with advice from French general Sebastiani.
Duckworth retreated, and Selim, using French artillerymen, was now allied with France. He levied new troops for the war against Russia, but Janissaries at Adrianople and in the Danubian
theater of war resisted the redeployment. Selim suspended the reforms and appointed a Janissary leader grand vizier; but Janissaries mutinied against the new uniforms and equipment,
gathering in the Hippodrome. The new chief Mufti presided over trials of the reformers, and seventeen were beheaded. Selim tried to abolish the New Order but was deposed and went to the
Cage, whence his cousin Mustafa IV emerged as the new sultan in May 1807. A truce with the Russians enabled Bayrakdar Mustafa to lead his Bosnian and Albanian troops from the Danube to
Istanbul. When they demanded to see Selim, Sultan Mustafa ordered Selim and his brother Mahmud strangled. Selim was executed, but Mahmud hid. The Albanians found him, deposed
Mustafa, and enthroned Mahmud IT in July 1808. Bayrakdar became grand vizier, executed the assassins and supporters of Mustafa IV, and revived the reforms that Selim had initiated. The
responsibilities of local governors were more clearly defined, and the Janissaries were suppressed. After Bayrakdar sent home his Albanian and Bosnian armies, in November 1808 the
Janissaries attacked his palace and burned him to death. The reforms once again were cancelled. In 1809 the Russians crossed the Danube from Wallachia and attacked the Turks camp at
Shumla; despite resistance by the Bosnian army, they captured Rustchuk. In May 1812 the Russians signed a treaty at Bucharest restoring Moldavia and Wallachia to the Ottoman empire while
retaining Bessarabia and access to the mouth of the Danube. The Turks occupied Belgrade in October 1813 and made Serbia a vassal state, as thousands fled to Austria. Many Greeks avoided
the authority of the Ottoman empire and became bandits . The Turks armed Christian to restrain them; but they often joined the Greeks. They also were pirates at sea, and the British taking of
the Ionian Islands from France in 1814 inspired revolt. A secret Society of Friends had been founded in 1770 when the Greeks first revolted against the Turks. The poet Rhigas Pheraios
promoted Greek nationalism with translations; but in 1797 while the French were trying to liberate the Ionian Islands, he was captured at Trieste with twelve chests of proclamations. Rhigas
was convicted in Vienna and executed by the pasha of Belgrade. Adamantios Koraes (1748-1833) designed a modem Greek language and began publishing a patriotic periodical in 1811 from
Vienna. The was revived at Odessa in 1814.(klepts)armatoli(Hetaireia ton Philikon)Hetaireia Elite Greek families lived in the Phanar district of Istanbul. Alexander Ypsilantis was from a
Phanariot Greek family that had been hospodars (governors) of Moldavia and Wallachia. He served the Czar in the Russian army and in 1820 was elected commissioner of the after Corfiote
count John Capodistria declined the presidency. Ypsilantis crossed the Pruth and began a revolt that was supported by the hospodar of Moldavia, but he found that Romanians in Wallachia were
not inspired by a Greek cause. The Czar dismissed Ypsilantis, and the Sultan had the Ecumenical Patriarch excommunicate him, sending an army to Bucharest. Ypsilantis fled to Austria, where
that emperor imprisoned him. His brother Dimitri Ypsilantis led the revolt in the Peloponnese which was prociaimed on March 25, 1821 while Sultan Mahmud was trying to subjugate his vassal
Ali Pasha in Epirus. This "Lion of Janina" had been recognized by Napoleon and in 1819 had taken over the Adriatic port at Parga. Ali's enemy Ismail had fled to Istanbul, and Ali sent two
assassins after him, provoking the Sultan's response. Ali held out against the Ottoman attempt to suppress him for nearly two years before he and his three sons were beheaded in
1822.Hetaireia Greeks began taking over Morea fortresses, and Greek privateers captured ports. Greeks attacked Muslims and massacred the town of Livadia, and more than eight thousand
Turks were slaughtered at Tripolitsa. Athens was fortified by the Turks and held out for a year. Mesolonghi and Macedonia rebelled, as the monks of Mount Athos took up the cause. On Crete the
Janissaries and Muslims slaughtered Christians, including six bishops at Candia. Phanariots at Istanbul were executed, and the Greek patriarch Gregory V was hanged on Easter Sunday. The
Turkish navy took revenge for the loss of a flagship by destroying the island of Chios, enslaving and driving off its hundred thousand Christians. The Ottomans crushed the revolt north of the
Gulf of Corinth; but Greeks in the Morea convened local assemblies. Dimitri Ypsilantis convened a national assembly near Epidaurus and proclaimed a constitution on the first day of 1822. Its
main author Alexander Mavrokordatos, a Phanariot from Mesolonghi, was made president. Greek rebels led by Kolokotrones captured Nauplia; but he refused to recognize a national assembly
and kidnapped four of its members; they withdrew and elected the Albanian Hydriot Koundouriotis president. The European powers met at Verona in 1822 but refused to receive Greek
delegates they considered revolutionaries. The English poet Lord Byron arrived at Cephalonia in 1823 with a large loan from a Greek committee in London, but the next year at Mesolonghi he
observed the Greeks fighting each other. He had been instructed to give the money to Koundourictis, but he gave Kolokotrones a share for surrendering Nauplia. A few months later the civil
war continued, and Kolokotrones was captured. Mavrokordatos retired in disgust, and Byron died of malaria. In 1825 Sultan Mahmud appealed to Muhammad 'Ali of Egypt, offering control over
Crete and the Peloponnese. Muhammad Ali sent his son Ibrahim with a disciplined force that reconquered most of the Peloponnese for the Ottoman empire. Kolokotrones was released, but
Ibrahim defeated him twice. The next year the Egyptians helped the Turks besieging Mesolonghi, and the government of Koundouriotis soon fell. Two British officers he had recruited insisted
that the two factions reconcile. The National Assembly made a new constitution and elected Capodistria president, but Athens fell to the Turks in June 1827. Ottoman Reforms 1826-1875
Meanwhile in 1826 Britain and Russia had agreed on a compromise to let the Greeks manage their own internal affairs as long as they paid tribute to the Ottoman empire; France signed on at
London in July 1827. The Greeks accepted this, but the Sultan rejected it. The armistice was to be enforced by the three European navies. After a blockade they sailed into the bay of Navarino
to make Egypt's Ibrahim accept the armistice. When an Egyptian ship fired on an open boat of delegates on October 20, the French flagship retaliated. In the ensuing battle the Ottoman and
Egyptian fleets were destroyed. The English persuaded to withdraw the Egyptian troops; a French force made them go and stayed for five years, because the Sultan would not agree to the
armistice. After touring Europe, Capodistria returned to Nauplia in 1828 and appointed a governing Panhellenion under his control. Muhammad Ali In 1826 the Russians had imposed the
Convention of Ackerman on the Turks, claiming privileges for Moldavians and Wallachians, rights for Serbians, and former Turkish fortresses in Asia. The Sultan declared war on Russia the next
year, and Czar Nicholas led the invasion across the Danube; but Turkish defenses caused heavy Russian casualties. The next year a larger Russian force led by Marshal Diebitsch besieged
Silistria and routed a larger Turkish army outside of Shumla. Leaving that fortress behind, Diebitsch led the Russians over the Balkan mountains to surprise Edime (Adrianople), which
surrendered. He continued the march toward Istanbul, and in September 1829 the Sultan agreed to the Treaty of Adrianople. Russia gave back most of its conquests but gained part of Moldavia
and the mouth of the Danube. Moldavia and Wallachia, though still under Ottoman sovereignty, gained self-government and the removal of most Muslims. Serbia was independent except for
the fortresses at Belgrade and Orsova. The Russians had also won victories in Asia and annexed Georgia and part of the Caucasus. The Sultan finally agreed to the Treaty of London granting
Greek autonomy, though Crete, Thessaly, and Albania remained Ottoman provinces. Capodristia rejected the appointment of Leopold of Saxe-Coburg as the Sovereign Prince of Greece; but his
autocratic methods were resented, and Capodristia was assassinated by Maniots in 1831. Prince Otho of Bavaria was crowned king of Greece and reigned for a generation. The success of the
modern Egyptian army in Greece made the Turks evaluate their own incompetence. Janissaries had even burned houses in Istanbul to show they did not want to fight the Russians. In 1826
Ottoman sultan Mahmud IT initiated reforms he had discussed with Selim III while they had been in the Cage for a year two decades earlier. He aimed to centralize his government over all
provinces except Egypt and to remove the obstructive power of the Janissaries. With the support of the Chief Mufti and the he ordered the Janissaries to provide 150 men for a new corps using
modern methods. When they protested at the Hippodrome as expected and then stormed government buildings, a authorized killing rebel leaders. About 3,000 students and thousands of
people gathered at the palace and forced the Janissaries to return to their barracks, where they refused to surrender and were bombarded by Mahmud's loyal artillery troops; 4,000 mutineers
were killed. Thus on June 15, 1826 the Sultan abolished the Janissaries, and two days later he outlawed the Bektashi order of dervishes who supported them. He appointed a Serasker, who was
both commander-in-chief and minister of war. New regulations called for 12,000 troops in the capital and others in the provinces serving for twelve years. Centralization gave Istanbul control
over the provincial armies.'ulamafatwa The grand mufti was given new judicial power. The became part of the state bureaucracy, as did the , the pious foundation of Muslim charities. The
grand vizier became prime minister, and his functions were divided into the ministries of Foreign and Civic Affairs; the treasurer became the minister of Finance. The ministries of Education,
Commerce, Agriculture, and Industry were combined into the Board of Useful Affairs. A land survey registered all landholdings in order to reform the tax system, as the last vestiges of
feudalism were abolished. A council devised new public laws with penalties for malfeasance, bribery, and corruption. Government officials were given salaries so that they could not collect fees ,
which were hard to distinguish from bribes, for their services. In 1824 Mahmud II had made primary education compulsory, though it still was under the clerics. Secondary schools were
developed by the state, and starting in 1827 groups of students were sent to Paris. That year a state medical school was established to train doctors for the army, and a college of military
science began in 1834. The first newspaper in Turkish was published at Istanbul in 1831; the Translation Office was opened in 1833; and the postal service began in 1834. European customs
were adopted by the Sultan and his government. Offices were furnished with chairs, tables, and desks. Soldiers wore tunics, pants, and boots. The red felt fez, popular in North Africa, was
adopted; having no brim, the Muslims could still touch their foreheads to the ground in prayer.'ulamavakf(defterdar)(bahshish) Ibrahim led an Egyptian invasion of Syria and Anatolia that took
over Gaza, Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, Aleppo, and Konya in 1832, and he was ready to march on Istanbul. Sultan Mahmud II appealed to Russia for help, which spurred the British and French
to persuade Muhammad ali to withdraw the Egyptian army. In the 1833 agreement he was to retain control over Egypt, Crete, Syria, Damascus, Tripoli, Aleppo, and Adana during his lifetime.
The Russians promised to assist Mahmud and gained a secret agreement to use the Straits for the next eight years. In 1838 Muhammad Ali refused to pay tribute to Istanbul, provoking Sultan
Mahmud to declare war and invade Syria. The Ottoman navy defected to Egypt, and Ibrahim again defeated the Turks in Syria. Britain, Russia, and Austria met and advised Muhammad 'Ali to
withdraw his forces from Syria and return the Ottoman navy to Istanbul. When he refused, the British fleet bombarded and destroyed the forts of Beirut and Acre. The British troops were
supported by Syrians revolting against Egyptian domination, causing Muhammad 'Ali to withdraw the troops from Syria and agree to the terms that recognized him as hereditary pasha of
Egypt; Syria and Crete were restored to the Ottoman empire, and the Egyptian military was to be limited. Mahmud II had died in July 1839 and was succeeded by his 16-year-old son Abdul
Mejid. Young Abdul Mejid (1 1839-61) developed a close relationship with British ambassador Stratford Canning. Foreign minister Mustafa Reshid returned from London and helped the new
Sultan modemize his government along European lines. On November 3, 1839 in the Chamber of Roses in the Grand Seraglio, Abdul Mejid announced the Tanzimat or Reorganization,
guaranteeing freedom and security of life, honor, and property; regular methods of taxation instead of tax farms; regular recruiting for military service with limited duration; and fair public
trials according to law and no punishments without a legal sentence. The Council of Justice was organized in 1840; they could freely give their opinions, although they were all appointed by the
Sultan. Distinctions between Muslims and others were to be eliminated. This meant Christians serving in the army as well as the navy, where they already served. Many Muslims disliked the
new laws; clerics called the new commercial code blasphemy, because it went beyond Islamic law. So the Sultan suspended the code and dismissed Reshid, demoting him to his former job as
ambassador in Paris. The reactionary Riza Pasha became Serasker, and the anti-western Izzet Mehmed became grand vizier. Riza did reform the military, recruiting troops for five years active
duty, followed by seven years in the reserves. Christians were not recruited, and the force reached 250,000; non-Muslims paid an exemption tax. For five years the (Rose Chamber) reforms
were thought of as the (Dust Hole).GulhaneGulhan The reaction to granting those of other religions equal rights in the Ottoman empire caused some persecution of Jews. In Damascus when
the Christian monk Tomaso disappeared in 1840, several Jews were accused of murder and tortured; four were even beheaded. On Rhodes a ten-year-old boy hanged himself, and Christians
charged Jews with murder. Persecution of Jews in Syria spread, and a synagogue near Damascus was pillaged and destroyed. Adolf Cremieux in France came to the defense of the Jews, and a
tribunal in Rhodes acquitted the accused Jews. Money was raised to find the murderer of Tomaso. Nine European consuls petitioned, and Egyptian viceroy Muhammad ali released the nine
prisoners at Damascus. During their decade of occupation the Egyptians had tried to disarm Syria, collect new taxes, and monopolize silk, cotton, tobacco, and coal. After the Egyptians
withdrew, in 1841 the Ottomans secularized the judicial system with equality for non-Muslims. Bashir IT in Lebanon had defeated the Druzes in 1825 and cooperated with the Egyptian invasion
of 1831; but in 1840 the British and France intervened to evict the Egyptians from Syria and removed Bashir. Conflicts between the Druzes and the Maronite Christians caused several wars
between 1838 and 1845, though Ottoman authority established a new government for Lebanon in 1843 with a Druze governor in the south and a Maronite governor in the north. The Maronites
rebelled in 1858, and then the Druzes and Muslims attacked the Maronites. European powers intervened again, and in 1861 the Ottomans promulgated new regulations with a Christian as the
head of the government. The Maronites benefited from European education, which their clergy got at Rome. French Jesuits had established a school as early as 1728 at Aintura, and Maronite
colleges were founded at Zigharta in 1735 and Ayn Warga in 1789. After 1839 new schools were established at Zahleh, Damascus, and Aleppo. The American University of Beirut was founded in
1866 and the French University of Joseph in 1875. Many joined the Society of Arts and Sciences that started in 1847 and the Syrian Scientific Society that was founded ten years later to
promote Arabic literature. Stratford Canning defended the rights of Christians, protesting when a young Greek and a young Armenian were executed for having reverted to Christianity after
converting to Islam. Canning learned that Riza and the Finance minister were involved in peculation with two Christian capitalists, and in 1845 the Sultan dismissed Riza. Reshid became grand
vizier again and renewed the reforms. An Ottoman state university was planned, but the buildings were never completed. Local councils were elected to advise governors; but the majority
Muslim Turks tended to be reactionary. Canning did persuade Abdul Mejid to ban the slave traffic by Turkish ships. In 1847 mixed civil and criminal courts with an equal number of Ottoman and
European judges were established, and the revised penal code was promulgated in 1851. A year earlier the new commercial code went into effect, and trade began to increase. The population
of major cities multiplied in one generation with many foreigners. An Ottoman bank had been instituted in 1840, and four years later the currency was safeguarded. The expenses of the
Crimean War opened up foreign loans, and the Ottoman economy became dependent on the capitalist enterprises of Europeans. However, Canning's efforts to reform prisons, improve roads,
eliminate corruption, or improve imperial finances were not implemented, Abdul Mejid had a lavish new palace constructed with European elegance, increasing his debt, and he became
preoccupied with rococo entertainment with European artists and musicians. In 1852 ambassador Canning returned to England. In 1850 the new French president Louis Napoleon began
insisting that the 1740 treaty on the Latin Church's grants in the holy land be enforced. Russian pilgrims and money had made the Greek Orthodox Church dominant there. A new anti-Russian
grand vizier gave the French concessions. In 1852 Czar Nicholas refused to recognize Napoleon III as emperor, and he sent the combative prince Menshikov as ambassador to Istanbul. He
wanted a guarantee that Russia could protect all Orthodox subjects in the Ottoman empire. France sent a fleet to Salamis, and England sent Canning (now called Lord Stratford de Redcliffe)
back to Istanbul. The Turks offered to settle the dispute between the Greeks and the Latins by paying for the repair of the churches in the holy land themselves under the supervision of the
Greek patriarch. Menshikov insisted that foreign minister Mehmed Fuad Pasha be removed, hoping Reshid would be better. Menshikov asked for a direct alliance between Russia and the
Ottomans, but Reshid rejected the protectorate. Stratford persuaded the Austrians to try to intervene; but Menshikov rejected this and left in May 1853. Russian troops crossed the Pruth and
occupied Moldavia and Wallachia. The Sultan and Stratford sent a note to the four powers (Britain, France, Austria, and Prussia) meeting in Vienna, but they rejected this and sent their own
note to Russia. In September 1853 demonstrations erupted into riots in Istanbul, and the called for a holy war. Eventually the British told Stratford to order the British fleet into the Straits, and
the Ottomans on October 4 gave the Russians a fortnight to withdraw from the Danube principalities. The Anglo-French squadron sailed into the Dardanelles on October 20, and three days later
the Turkish forces crossed the Danube. Czar Nicholas announced Russia would remain on the defensive; but in the Black Sea six Russian ships appeared in the Turkish harbor of Sinope in
November and demanded a Turkish flotilla and two transport ships surrender. The Turks refused and fired the first shot; but the Russians bombarded the ships, killing 3,000. The British and
French immediately loaned the Ottoman empire two million pounds.'ulama In early 1854 the allied ships sailed into the Black Sea. Britain and France demanded Russia withdraw its troops from
Moldavia and Wallachia but got no reply. In the spring the Russian army crossed the Danube and besieged Silistria for five weeks. The Turks fought well and forced the Russians to withdraw to
Bucharest, evacuating Moldavia and Wallachia as Austrian troops took their place. The Ottomans had won the Danube War, but the Crimean War began as Britain and France attacked the
Russian stronghold at Sebastopol. The Turks played a minor role of support by defending Balaclava, Eupatoria, and Kars in Asia Minor. After the French captured Fort Malakhov in September
1855, Sebastopol fell. The treaty the next year made few territorial changes. Protection of the Rumanian principalities and the Orthodox Christians was transferred from Russia to the western
powers, and the Black Sea was declared neutral and free of naval forces and arsenals. During the Crimean War ambassador Stratford prepared a charter of reform for the Ottoman empire to
extend the Tanzimat reforms, and this was incorporated into the 1856 treaty at Paris. Equal rights regardless of race, religion, or language were applied specifically to taxation, education,
justice, property, public offices, and administration. However, France refused to allow enforcement of these rights into the treaty. The Reform Edict called for annual budgets, banks, employing
European capital, codifying penal and commercial law, reforming the prison system, mixed courts for cases involving non-Muslims, and improving commerce, agriculture, roads, and canals.
Stratford left Istanbul in 1858, succeeded by Henry Bulwer. By then the Ottoman treasury was empty; military pay was in arrears; inflation was increasing the cost of living; and the national
debt was escalating. In 1859 more than forty conspirators were arrested and interrogated in the Kuleli barracks for attempting to overthrow the government; they were sent to prison or exile in
the provinces, and the death sentences were commuted. Ali Pasha was replaced as grand vizier by the conservative Kibrisli Mehmed Emin Pasha. In 1860 thousands of Christians were killed in
Lebanon by Druzes and in Damascus by Muslims. Ottoman imperial forces effectively pacified these provinces as the French landed troops in Lebanon to defend the Maronites. The next year the
Porte at Istanbul agreed with the European governments to appoint a Christian governor for Lebanon. Educational reforms took time to affect society. A plan for comprehensive state education
had been formulated in 1846, and middle schools opened the next year. Schools for females began in 1858, and the year after that a school of political science helped to prepare civil servants.
By 1867 the Ottoman empire of about forty million people had 11,008 primary schools with 242,017 boys and 126,454 girls; 108 (middle schools) were educating 7,830 students; but only 225
were studying in specialized civil schools. The non-Muslim millets operated another 2,495 schools (mostly primary) with 125,404 students. The plan for free and compulsory primary schooling
was not devised until 1869. Because of the need for teachers, these would take generations to reach large numbers of people.rushdiye's Abdul Mejid died in 1861 and was succeeded by his
brother Abdul Aziz, who would rule until 1876. He pensioned off his brother's concubines but had even more himself, employing 3,000 eunuchs. In 1864 the provinces were organized into , and
these were further subdivided into , , , and , which were groups of rural hamlets. The millets for non-Muslims were reorganized, and in 1865 the Jewish community approved a constitution;
those in Istanbul elected a grand rabbi, but they had no clerical hierarchy like the Armenian and Greek millets. In 1867 moderates in Bulgaria asked for self-government under dual monarchy.
Crete was rebelling; there was unrest in Montenegro and Syria; and the Turks withdrew their last garrisons from Serbia, where Prince Michael was trying to unite the Balkans against Ottoman
rule. The urging of France, Britain, and Austria enabled the progressive ministers Mehmet Ali Pasha and Mehmed Fuad Pasha to reorganize the High Council to improve justice and education. In
1868 Midhat Pasha, who had governed Bulgaria, Iraq, and the Danube province well, was appointed president of a Council of State that included Christians to prepare a budget and promote
reforms. Husain Awni Pasha worked on education in order to improve the army. Nonetheless Abdul Aziz was reactionary and autocratic. vilayetssancakskazaskariye'snahiye's Whereas the
Tanzimat had aimed at justice, now the young Turks wanted liberty and constitutional government. The first political party in Turkish history called the Patriotic Alliance or Young Ottoman
Society was formed in 1865 as a secret society based on the Carbonari in Italy. Reshid Pasha had died in 1858, but two of his proteges led the movement. Ibrahim Shinasi had been a student
at Paris during the revolution of 1848; he edited a newspaper in Istanbul and wrote poems and plays. Ziya Pasha went to Paris, London, and Geneva in 1867, and he advocated a constitution
and national parliament. Namik Kemal (1840-88) came from a family of Ottoman officials, and in 1857 he began working for the Institute of Translation. After Shinasi left for Paris in 1864, he
edited the newspaper. When Egyptian prince Mustafa Fazil wrote an open letter to the Sultan in French demanding a constitution, Namik Kemal translated it into Turkish and published it in the
paper. Exiled to the provinces, Kemal went to London and then to Paris with Ziya Pasha and seven others. In 1867 Abdul Aziz was the first sultan to visit Paris and London, where he came
across the young radicals who were being financed by Fazil. In June 1868 Kemal and Ziya Pasha began publishing their Turkish newspaper , which means freedom.Hurriyet_ Kemal translated
French works into Turkish, and he wrote a series of "Letters on Constitutional Regime" to expound his liberal philosophy. He believed in the political sovereignty of the people and that the rights,
of individuals should be based on justice. He argued that Islam is compatible with republican government, and he proposed a council of state to draft bills and administer the laws, a national
assembly to legislate and control the budget, and a senate to moderate the legislative body and the executive power by protecting the liberties of the people. Kemal argued that the superiority
of modern civilization could no longer be doubted, and he urged Muslims to have faith in liberty and progress. He was the first Turkish writer to point out how the West had penetrated their
economy, and he criticized the current financial, administrative, and educational conditions. Although he wanted to apply Western science, technology, economy, press, and education, he
criticized the Tanzimat legal reforms for undermining the Muslim community. He argued that adopting the separation of state from religion was a serious error that opened the way for European
interference. He became a patriotic romantic and urged an Islamic constitution. Kemal's patriotic drama portrayed the heroic defense of Silistria and was performed at Istanbul in 1873. The
audience was so moved by the play that the first three performances were followed by shouting and public demonstrations, causing Sultan Abdul Aziz to close the play, ban Kemal's newspaper,
and deport him to Cyprus for three years. There he wrote his most famous play about the sacrifice of a Turkish marine officer. His romantic tragedy advocated marriage by free choice and
prohibiting of forced marriages. In 1875 his romantic comedy portrayed a tyrannical governor whose jealousy fails to keep two lovers apart. Vatan (Fatherland)Akif BeyThe Miserable
ChildGulnihal The modem Turkish theater was suddenly coming alive. In 1860 the first published play was the one-act farce by Ibrahim Shinasi that satirized the custom of arranged marriages
In 1873 Mehmet Rifat's tragicomedy portrayed an elaborate circumcision ceremony. Following Kemal's , Ottoman victories were glorified in Mehmet Rifat's and Mehmet Sadettin's . Also in 1874
Nuri's satirized Turkish imitation of European manners. In 1875 Ahmet Mithat Efendi, who had also been exiled with Kemal, exposed the bigotry of Muslim clerics in , feudal oppression in , and
showed that nobility comes from character, not from birth, in his . Akhondov (1812-78) in Azerbaijan wrote several comedies satirizing social abuses and conservatism.A Poet's MarriageThe
TraditionFatherlandEither a Veteran or a MartyrThe Danube or VictoryDandies of Our TimeThe Uncovered HeadThe Taking of Revenge or The Old Civilization of EuropeThe Command of the Heart
Mehmed Fuad died in 1869, and after the death of Mehmet ali in 1871 Sultan Abdul Aziz felt he was free from the reformers and could pursue his absolutist tendencies. He made his
ministers directly responsible to him instead of to the grand vizier. He made the ambitious Mahmud Nelim grand vizier, and he dismissed ministers and rotated others. Abdul Aziz removed Nelim
in 1872 and had six grand viziers in the next three years. He emulated the European luxuries he had observed and spent money building ironclad warships and railroads. In twenty years the
Ottoman debt had risen from 4,000,000 pounds to 200,000,000. More than half of the empire's revenues were now going to pay its charges. In 1873 drought in Anatolia led to famine, and
many taxes could no longer be collected. Tax farming, which had been declared abolished in the reforms of 1839 and 1856, was once again banned. A bad harvest and extortions for taxes
erupted into insurrection in Herzegovina in June 1875 and spread to Bosnia, causing civil war between Muslims and Christians. Uprisings in Bulgaria were becoming stronger, and the latest in
September 1875 at Stara Zagora was crushed. In October the government announced that creditors would only receive half the interest due. Minister Midhat Pasha was also deposed in 1875.
This disorder would lead to a coup d'etat and the acceptance of a constitution in 1876. The Ottoman empire was in a very weakened and difficult situation. Their multi-ethnic empire had long
been stretched to the limit of its military capacity, and now it was suffering from the competition of economic imperialism. Most of their merchants were Europeans or Ottoman Christians. The
capitulations the Ottoman empire gave the Europeans prevented them from imposing comparable tariffs to protect their industries. Thus cloth manufacturing, for example, in the Ottoman
empire had decreased to about a third of what it had been a generation earlier because of European mercantilism. The diverse ethnic groups with different languages called were greatly
affected by the growing nationalism of the 19th century, and these groups often received military assistance from the western powers, as the Greeks had. Missionaries funded private
universities such as Robert College in 1863, the Syrian Protestant College in 1866, and the Universite Saint-Joseph in 1874. In the early 1870s the French also influenced the development of
the civil code.millets Persia of Nadir and Zands 1730-1794 Nadir Quli Beg dethroned the drunken Tahmasp and proclaimed his infant son Abbas III in 1732. The next year Nadir besieged
Baghdad but was defeated by the Turks at Kirkuk, though greater numbers helped the Persians to route the Ottoman army at Topal Osman. In 1735 Nadir with 80,000 Persians won a big
victory at Baghavand, gaining Tiflis, Ganja, and Erivan in the treaty of Baghdad. In 1736 he deposed abbas and named himself Nadir Shah Afshar. Nadir transferred his capital to Mashhad in
his Khurasan homeland. He disestablished the Shi institutions but aimed at reconciliation by adding the Shi'i Ja'fari as the fifth school of law, equal to the four Sunni schools. His attempted
compromise did not satisfy either the Sunnis of the Ottoman empire nor the Shi'is in Persia. He did gain Persian pilgrims equal status at Mecca, and Sunnis could no longer hold Persians in
slavery for not being orthodox. The ambitious Nadir Shah emulated Timur in his quest to conquer other lands. In 1737 his army of 80,000 besieged Qandahar, which gave in a year later. Nadir
left Qandahar abandoned, founded a new city called Nadirabad, and moved on to Ghazna and Kabul to invade the empire of Muhammad Shah, using the pretext that he had given refuge to
fugitive Afghanis. In December 1738 Nadir leamed that Lezgis in the Caucasus had assassinated his brother. He appointed Riza Quli his viceroy in Persia and headed for Lahore, where the
governor gave Nadir gold and was allowed to keep his position. Muhammad Shah came to visit Nadir, who had his army surround the Mughal army outside of Delhi. Sa'adat Khan attacked the
pillaging Kurds; but he was defeated and captured by Nadir's main army. Nadir claimed that 20,000 enemies were killed and even more made prisoners. Nadir and the Mughal emperor entered
Delhi together in March 1739, and Nadir had coins minted in his name. Gifts and taxes brought Nadir fifteen crores of gold, and he married Emperor Aurangzeb's great granddaughter. This
treasure enabled Nadir to exempt Iran from taxes for the next three years. By December Nadir was back in Kabul, where he recruited 40,000 Afghanis for his army. Mughal At Herat in 1740
Nadir visited his nephew Ali Quli and his grandson Shahrukh, and he publicly criticized Riza Quli for putting to death Shah Tamasp and his two sons. The Qajar chief Muhammad Husain Khan
had persuaded Riza Quli and carried out the murders. Huwala Arabs were revolting, and they killed Nadir's admiral Mir 'Ali Khan. Nadir built up his navy using Indian shipbuilders and timber
from the north. In October 1740 Nadir defeated Abu 'I-Faiz Khan of Bukhara but reinstated him as governor as he annexed Charju and added about 25,000 Uzbeks to his army. Khiva had been
using Persian slave labor, and its ruler Iibars Khan had invaded Khurasan and helped Bukhara's resistance. After Nadir crossed Khwarazm, Khiva surrendered; but Nadir had Ilbar and twenty of
his commanders executed, releasing the Iranian and Russian captives. After briefly visiting Mashhad, Nadir marched toward Azerbaijan. In the Mandaran forests an attempted assassination
wounded Nadir, who suspected his son Riza Quli and had his eyes put out. In the summer of 1741 Nadir's army of 150,000 invaded Daghistan. By 1743 the Ottoman envoys had made it clear
that the Ja'fari sect would not be recognized by the Sultan. So that August with a force of 300,000 Nadir attacked Kirkuk and then besieged Mosul; but he had to give it up after a month and
could never take Baghdad. After sending out forces to quell revolts, in July 1744 Nadir continued his war against the Turks by besieging Qars. Nadir put his son Imam Quli in charge of Khurasan
and his nephew Ibrahim Khan over Iraq (central Iran). Finally in August 1745 the Turks were defeated, as Yegen Muhammad died. Nadir released the wounded and weak but transferred four
thousand prisoners to Tehran and Tabriz. A peace treaty in 1747 ended this Persian-Ottoman war and protected Iranian travelers through Ottoman lands, because the Shi'i custom of cursing the
first three caliphs had been outlawed in Iran. The treasure taken from Delhi seems to have made Nadir Shah a miser, and he demanded heavy taxes for his war expenses, provoking revolts
throughout his own empire. All jewels were seized on suspicion that they had been stolen from his Delhi treasure. Persian officers resented his favoring the Afghans and Uzbeks. Traveling from
Isfahan to Khurasan, he left towers of skulls to commemorate the uprisings he crushed. After returning to Mashhad, Nadir sent tax collectors to the 140,000 Kurds, who dispersed from
Khabushan. Nadir marched toward Khabushan, but in the middle of 1747 he was murdered in his tent by orders from his nephew Ali Quli Khan, who was proclaimed Adil Shah two weeks later.
He had Nadir's sons murdered too but only imprisoned his 13-year-old grandson Shahrukh. After sending his brother Ibrahim Khan to Isfahan, Adil Shah sent the Georgian Suhrab to poison
him. Ibrahim learned of the plot and had Suhrab executed. He gathered forces on his way to Mashhad, capturing Kirmanshah. Adil Shah fled, was captured, and blinded, having ruled less than
a year. Nadirs widow had him put to death in revenge for her sons. Young Shahrukh was enthroned at Mashhad in October 1748 by Khurasan nobles and Kurdish, Turkmen, and Bayat chiefs.
Two months later Ibrahim proclaimed himself shah; but he was defeated and fled. Sayyid Muhammad refused to admit him to the shrine city of Qum. Sayyid Muhammad's mother was the
daughter of Safavid shah Sulaiman, and so in 1750 he was enthroned by Alam Khan Arab Khuzaima and some Kurdish and Jalariyid chiefs as Sulaiman IT. Shahrukh was blinded but was
restored to the throne after only a few months, as Sulaiman II was removed and blinded. Shahrukh's infirmity was concealed, and Yusuf Ali Khan Jalayir helped him govern. Shahrukh was
supported by Afghani ruler Ahmad Shah Durrani (r. 1747-73), who had founded his own kingdom at Qandahar after Nasirs death and helped protect Khurasan against incursions from central
Iran, After Mughal emperor Alamgir IT recaptured Lahore, Ahmad Shah Durrani pillaged Delhi in 1756. He was succeeded in Afghanistan by his son Timur Shah (t. 1773-93) and grandson
Zaman Shah (r. 1793-1800); but the latter was too occupied with India and Kashmir to help prevent the demise of Shahrukh by the Qajars in 1796. At Isfahan a Bakhtiyar leader named Ali
Mardan Khan got Abu'l-Fath Khan to surrender and crowned a young Safavid as Shah Isma'll III in 1750. Ali Mardan Khan ruled as (viceroy of the state) and sent out the Kurdish leader Karim
Khan Zand to subjugate the country. Ali Mardan extorted taxes and gifts, and he deposed and killed Abu'l-Fath Khan, replacing him with his own uncle. He lost support and went out to pillage
Kazarun. In 1751 Karim Khan retumed with the army and routed the Bakhtiyari. 'Ali Mardan fled to Khuzistan, and Karim Khan began his rule as viceroy. The new Zand dynasty of Karim was
soon challenged by the Qajar leader Muhammad Hasan Khan from Astarabad. While Karim's army was besieging Kirmanshah, Ali Mardan raised an army in Luristan; he was joined by Azad
Khan, a Ghilzai Afghan frVakil al-daula