Ask a question Next Steps - Offer confidential advice about workplace issues over the telephone, plus loads of useful information for employers and employees online. Tel: 08457 474747 Acas
(Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service) - Frequently asked questions about discrimination. Advice Guide - Advice and information is available from the Commission for Racial Equality,
on race discrimination. Commission for Racial Equality - Information about all types of workplace discrimination and advice about how to deal with it. DirectGov - More information about the
Employment Equality (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2003. Stonewall - Information about workplace discrimination for 14 to 18 year-olds. Young NCB Related articles Find out how trade
unions can improve your workling life. Tick Tax How are you managing your money in these taxing times? Tell us and you could receive a HMV voucher Take part Join the discussion If you've
got an issue you want to talk about or just fancy a natter, check out the boards Find more feeds Discrimination at work If you feel you're being treated unfairly at work, there may be a law to
protect you. Read on to find out about your rights, and what you can do about discrimination in the workplace. It's against the law for an employer to discriminate against you because of your
race, religion, country of origin, nationality, ethnic group, gender, sexuality or disability. Sometimes discrimination at work is obvious. If you aren't treated as well as someone else because of
something like your skin colour or gender, it's referred to as direct discrimination. But discrimination can also be subtler; imagine a job description that unfairly limits the chances of people from
one sex or a particular ethnic group, for example. This is called indirect discrimination. Racial discrimination The makes it unlawful for an employer to discriminate against an employee (either
full or part-time) in Great Britain on the grounds of race (race means colour, nationality, or ethnic or national origins). Race Relations Act An employer must: Allow most jobs and training
schemes to be occupied by any race; with the exception of jobs such as modelling, acting, or in places where food or drink is served and a certain race is needed for authenticity; Give all races,
the same terms in the work contract; Allow all races the same promotion, training, and other opportunities. Sexual discrimination Many people, at some stage in their working lives, receive
unwelcome sexual attention from colleagues. Sexual harassment covers a whole range of issues, from rude remarks to leering and unwanted physical contact, and in law is seen as direct
discrimination under the . Although it usually applies to women, men can be victims too. Sex Discrimination Act 1975 Equal rights Most jobs, training schemes and must be open equally to
both sexes and to people of all ethnic backgrounds. The laws apply to full and part-time work, although a few jobs are excluded from the sex discrimination laws. These include acting,
modelling and jobs involving a physical or close contact with the opposite sex. It is also legal for British firms to discriminate for jobs overseas where local customs frown on certain jobs being
done by the opposite sex. apprenticeships Disability discrimination The is designed to protect certain groups of disabled people from unfair discrimination and it applies to firms of 20 or more
employees. It's against the law to treat a disabled person less favourably than someone without the disability, unless it can be justified for a reason related to the disability. The law allows an
employer to discriminate only if the disabled person is unsuitable - or less suitable - than the person taken on or if the person's disabilities would make it very difficult for the job to be done.
The law, which applies to trainees as well as employees, also states that a firm should make reasonable adjustments to working conditions to allow a disabled person to do their job. Disability
Discrimination Act 1995 Gay discrimination Lesbian and gay workers are protected against discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of sexual orientation, thanks to the This legislation
bans direct and indirect discrimination, harassment and victimisation driven by a person's sexuality. Employment Equality (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2003. Discrimination that draws on
an assumption about a person's sexuality (regardless of whether the assumption is correct or not) is also ruled out. There's also protection for those who are suffering from discrimination
because they associate with people of a certain sexuality. Age discrimination came into force on 1 October 2006. Under the new rules it is against the law to discriminate against you for being
too young or too old when it comes to employment, adult education and training. The Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 The rules mean that: Your employer can't treat you unfairly
at work because of your age; Employers can't refuse to employ you because of your age; There's no upper or lower age limit for getting redundancy pay; Your employer can't dismiss you
because of your age; If you suffer age discrimination, you can make a claim to an employment tribunal; Your age can't be a barrier to getting certain benefits. Discrimination against religion
or belief were passed in 2003 to stop discrimination on the grounds of someone's religion or beliefs. The regulations are intended to protect , as well as those in the workplace. As well as direct
and indirect discrimination, the regulations outlaw harassment and victimisation. The Employment Equality (Religion or Belief) Regulations students in schools in colleges Beating discrimination
at work It's best to start by taking informal procedures - try to reason with the person who is treating you unfairly. If that doesn't work, get a third party involved - someone who's impartial if,
possible - and arrange a meeting where both sides can put their case forward. Keep a written record of any bullying or harassment to back up your claims. If you're a member of a , now's the
time to get them involved. union If this doesn't solve the problem, people with a disability might want to contact the or follow the . For any kind of discrimination, (Advisory, Conciliation and
Arbitration Service) offer confidential advice about workplace issues over the telephone. For more advice about dealing with bullying in the workplace, look at our . Disability Rights Commission
Questions Procedure Acas bullying at work article If you're finding it impossible to sort things out informally, you may be advised to take your complaint to an employment tribunal. This must
be done within three months, or six months if it is a claim under the. If you win your case, the tribunal can award damages to compensate you for the losses you have incurred. You may be
able to settle your case without the need to go to court but, if not, be prepared for a long and difficult battle, and remember to take . Equal Pay Act 1970 legal advice With thanks to the for
help with this article. CAB