Patch of the Virginia State Police. Agency Overview 1,869 (as of 2004) [1] Civilians 657 (as of 2004) [1] Agency executive Colonel W. Steven Flaherty, Superintendent Parent agency
Virginia Department of Public Safety Divisions http://www.vsp.state.va.us/ The , established in , is the force for the . The agency originated out of the as an agency and an enforcer of
highway laws. It is currently one of fourteen agencies within the Cabinet Secretariat of Public Safety, under the leadership of , a former State Police trooper and U.S. Marshal. Colonel W. Steven
Flaherty, with 31 years of law enforcement experience, was appointed to lead the Virginia State Police by then-Governor Mark R. Warner in October 2003. Virginia Department of State Police
1932 state police Commonwealth of Virginia Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles vehicle inspection John W. Marshall Virginia State Police achieved its initial in 1986, and was the second state
law-enforcement agency in the nation to receive such a prestigious recognition. Since then, the State Police has continually maintained its accredited status through the Commission on
Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies () Inc. accreditation CALEA [1] As of March 2008 the Virginia State Police has a total of 2,603 employees. There are 1,520 sworn members in the
Field Operations and Administrative Support Services bureaus. The remaining 401 sworn members comprise the Bureau of Criminal Investigation. There are a total of 682 civilian employees
working in all three bureaus. According to the Law Enforcement Management and Administrative Statistics Survey conducted in 2000, the Virginia State Police was the 30th largest police
department and 9th largest state police/highway patrol in the nation with 1,883 sworn members. In a more recent survey conducted in 2006 by the the Virginia State Police was still ranked 9th
in size among state police and highway patrols, with 2,610 employees(1,945 sworn & 665 civilian). [2] FBI [3] The Virginia State Police is the largest police agency in the Commonwealth of
Virginia. Contents [] edit Brief History In 1919 the Virginia State Police was with the passing of The Automobile Acts which stated that the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles and his assistants
were vested with the powers of for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this law. The Secretary of the Commonwealth continued to be responsible for this regulation. The burden of
enforcement still remained with sheriffs and constables in counties and police officers in the cities and towns.conceived sheriff The Motor Vehicle Act was passed in 1919, creating the first title
laws for Virginia motor vehicle owners. In 1932 inspectors became to enforce criminal codes, as well as motor vehicle codes. In doing so, legislators created a state enforcement group with the
power of arrest anywhere in Virginia. A mobile enforcement agency was now ready for duty wherever civil strife or emergency conditions might exist that would warrant police personnel to
ensure peace and security. It was at this time that inspectors began to be known as "."empoweredtroopers On November 3, 1938, an executive order from Majors Bishop and Nicholas officially
adopted the title of "." The purpose of this was to identify specific members of the Division of Motor Vehicles performing in the roles of inspector and motorcycle deputy. State Trooper On March
14, 1942, the General Assembly abolished the existing Division of Motor Vehicles and created two separate agencies: The Division of Motor Vehicles and The . The act called for the position of a
superintendent for the State Police and a commissioner for the Division of Motor Vehicles. Major C. W. Woodson, Jr. was officially appointed as superintendent for the State Police.Department of
State Police [4] [] edit Trooper's Pledge "Humbly recognizing the responsibilities entrusted to me as a member of the Department of State Police, an organization dedicated to the preservation
of human life and property, I pledge myself to perform my duties honestly and faithfully to the best of my ability and without fear, favor or prejudice. "I shall aid those in danger or distress,
and shall strive always to make my State and Country a safer place in which to live. I shall wage unceasing war against crime in all its forms, and shall consider no sacrifice too great in the
performance of my duty. I shall obey the laws of the United States of America and of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and shall support and defend their constitutions against all enemies
whomsoever, foreign and domestic. I shall always be loyal to and uphold the honor of my organization, my State and my Country." [5] Prior to graduation every trooper trainee dedicates the
Troopers Pledge to memory, honoring those who have come before them, reciting it during the graduation ceremony. Senior Special Agent [not rank (pay raise)] Special Agent (pay raise) []
edit Uniform and Equipment In 1931 to honor the men who fought the bitter battles of the Civil War 70 years before, blue shirts were selected for the Union and gray pants for the

Confederacy. The standard Class A Trooper uniform consists of a light blue colored button-up shirt, with long sleeves in winter and short sleeves in summer. A black tie is worn with the
long-sleeve shirt. Patches are sewn to each sleeve. Gray pants with a Dark Blue stripe down the sides are worn year round. Black shoes and , without cross strap, gun belt are worn with the
uniform. Clarino Sam Browne belt Virginia State Police, along with the Maryland State Police, the West Virginia State Police, the Massachusetts State Police, Georgia State Patrol, the Virginia
Capitol Police, and the Henrico County Police of Virginia, wear a badge directly over their shirt pocket. Virginia, Maryland and Michigan State Police all utilize the same style badge, however
Maryland's is gold and the Virginia and Michigan state police badges are silver. A black semi-gloss straw is worn year round. A modified winter can be worn in the colder months. Campaign hat
fur cap A dark blue dress blouse and standard black Clarino gun belt, without the cross strap, are worn for special occasions. Dark blue work jackets are utilized for colder months. Sam Browne
Sergeants and First Sergeant wear silver, out lined in blue, chevrons showing their rank on both sleeves. Troopers are issued the DAK pistol, the 12 gauge shotgun, and a patrol rifle. Sig
Sauer P229 .357 sig Remington 870 Colt M4 Carbine [] edit Previous Issued Weapons caliber 4 inch barrel stainless steel issued in mid 1970's to 1990. Smith and Wesson S&W Model 64 .38
revolver Officers Model caliber 4 inch barrel revolver was used from 1967 until the mid 1970's. Colt .38 caliber 6 inch barrel Official Police Special revolver was used up until 1967. Colt .38 []
edit Motorcycles In 1924 DMV created a motorcycle patrol force and all inspectors were issued one. Indian and Harley-Davidson motorcycles were used until 1954, In 1987 the Department
re-instituted the use of motorcycles and purchased Harley-Davidson FXRP's. Kawasaki KZ1000's were purchased in 1992 and two BMW R1100RT-P's were purchased in 2001. Since 2002 only
Harley-Davidsons have been used. [] edit Patrol Cars Prior to 1928 inspectors only used automobiles once they had seized a vehicle used to transport illegal whiskey and it had been released
to the Division for enforcement purposes by the courts. became the first issued patrol vehicles in 1928. In 1932 white roadsters and white motorcycles were purchased and became known as
the "The Great White Fleet". Fords and Chevys were the main staple of the patrol force in the 1930s and early 1940s. In 1945 post-war acquisitions of police vehicles were rare and troopers
made arrangements to purchase vehicles wherever they could. and supplemented the fleet until auto manufacturers resumed normal production. Fords Chevrolet Buicks Pontiacs In 1948 the
Department adopted the distinctive blue and gray paint scheme for all vehiles. Later in 1952 reflective markings were adopted and used for all marked vehicles. Those same markings are still in
use today. During the 1940s, 50's, 60's, 70's, and 80's the Department purchased Fords, Chevy's, Chryslers, and Plymouths for use as patrol cars. Ford's and Chevy's were used mainly used in
the 90's and 2000's. were introduced into the fleet in 2006. Dodge Chargers Red emergency lights had be in use until 1985 and then were replaced with blue emergency lights. Bar lights were
phased onto vehicles in 1988 replacing the single "bubble gum" light. "TROOPER" decals were added to the front fenders of patrol cars in 1998, Also in 1998 the Department adopted Ford silver
replacing the gray in the traditional paint scheme. Only the hood, ceiling and trunk were painted blue. This was due to budget constraints and that Ford stop using that particular gray paint.
"Slicktop" Chevrolet Impalas were put into use beginning in 2001. Seven "slicktop" 2002 Chevrolet 9C1 Camaros were put into service in high traffic areas in 2002. In 2006 the Department
purchased 30+ Hemi V8 Dodge Chargers and for the first time since 1948 adopted new graphics for the marked and slicktop Chargers. Current budget restraints prohibit the new markings from
being implemented onto the standard fleet. [] edit Organizational Structure The Department of State Police is primarily divided into three bureaus: Bureau of Field Operations (BFO), Bureau of
Criminal Investigation (BCI), and Bureau of Administrative and Support Services (BASS). Each Bureau Director, who holds the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, reports directly to the Deputy
Superintendent.[] citation needed The Superintendent s Office includes the Executive Protective Unit (EPU), Professional Standards Unit, and the Public Relations Office (PRO). [6] [] edit
Superintendent's Office [] edit Public Relations Office Regional Public Information Officers are located in Richmond, Culpeper, Appomattox, Wytheville, Chesapeake, Salem/Roanoke and Fairfax
County. The Public Relations Office serves as the primary contact for local, state, and national media through its response to incidents and dissemination of news releases about Department
programs and activities. The office also maintains daily contact with the public through outreach and education. [7] [] edit Professional Standards Unit The Professional Standards Unit is
responsible for the internal affairs, internal audits and staff inspection functions within the Department of State Police. The Internal Affairs Section conducts and coordinates the investigations
of allegations of misconduct on the part of Department employees. The Internal Audit Section provides the Department with independent and objective audits and reviews of Department
operations. In addition, this section conducts special projects, including payroll tests and verification of cash balances of various funds. The Staff Inspection Section conducts inspections of all
organizational components within the Department, ensuring compliance with National Accreditation Standards, OSHA requirements, and Department policies and procedures. The Staff
Inspection Section also manages all records retention and destruction within the Department. [8] [] edit Office of Performance Management and Internal Controls (OPMIC) The Office of
Performance Management and Intemal Controls (OPMIC) was created following the Governor s implementation of a performance management program for all state agencies. OPMIC reviews
tracks and monitors the objectives established in the Virginia Performs (www.vaperforms. Virginia.gov) performance management system, and ensures compliance with standards developed by
central government oversight agencies. Additionally, the office is responsible for conducting internal audits, operational reviews, program evaluations and strengthening the Department s
system of internal controls. OPMIC also manages the Department s accreditation and grants management programs. [9] [] edit Bureau of Field Operations (BFO) This section appears to have
been from a source, in violation of a copyright. copied and pasted possibly Please edit this article to remove any nonfree copyrighted content, attribute free content correctly, and be an original
source. Follow the and the . Remove this template after editing. Guide to layout Manual of Style (August 2008) The Bureau of Field Operations has as its primary responsibility the patrolling of
over 64,000 miles of state roadways and interstate highways throughout Virginia. Personnel provide both traffic enforcement and criminal law enforcement. The Bureau also is responsible for
managing the Aviation Unit, Crime Prevention Office, Drug Abuse Resistance Education Office (D.A.R.E.), Counter-Terrorism & Criminal Interdiction Unit (CCI), the Safety Division, Commercial
Vehicle Enforcement Unit, the Executive Protective Unit (EPU) and the 48 BFO Area Offices. The Commonwealth's geography and size dictate the need to decentralize uniformed police services
into seven field divisions. These divisions are further subdivided into 48 State Police areas that consist of one or more cities and/or counties. Manpower is allocated based upon workload
demands at the city and county level. [10] Area 1 Office (Counties of Hanover and Henrico, primarily Interstates 95 and 295) Area 2 Office (Counties of Essex, Lancaster, Northumberland,
Richmond and Westmoreland) Area 3 Office (Counties of Charles City, King and Queen, King William and New Kent) Area 4 Office (Counties of Goochland and Louisa) Area 6 Office (Counties
of Chesterfield (primarily Interstate 95, Chippenham Parkway, Powhite Parkway and Rt 288) Powhatan and Amelia) Area 7 Office (Counties of Dinwiddie, Nottoway and Prince George) Area 8
Office (City of Richmond and Henrico County, primarily Interstates 95, 64 and 895) Area 44 Office (Counties of Caroline and King George) Division Two - Culpeper Area 5 Office (Counties of
Spotsylvania and Stafford, as well as the City of Fredericksburg) Area 12 Office (Counties of Fauquier and Rappahannock) Area 13 Office (Counties of Clarke, Frederick and Warren) Area 14
Office (Counties of Page and Shenandoah) Area 15 Office (Counties of Culpeper, Madison and Orange) Area 16 Office (County of Rockingham) Division Three - Appomattox Area 17 Office
(County of Augusta) Area 18 Office (Counties of Albemarle, Greene, and Nelson) Area 19 Office (Counties of Buckingham, Cumberland, and Fluvanna) Area 20 Office (Counties of Amherst
and Campbell) Area 21 Office (Counties of Appomattox and Prince Edward) Area 22 Office (Counties of Lunenburg and Mecklenburg) Area 23 Office (Counties of Halifax and Charlotte)
Division Four - Wytheville Area 24 Office (Counties of Giles and Pulaski) Area 25 Office (Counties of Carroll and Grayson) Area 26 Office (Counties of Bland, Smyth, and Wythe) Area 27 Office
(Counties of Scott and Washington) Area 28 Office (Counties of Russell and Tazewell) Area 29 Office (Counties of Buchanan and Dickenson) Area 30 Office (Counties of Lee and Wise) Division
Five - Chesapeake Area 31 Office (Counties of Accomack and Northampton) Area 32 Office (Cities of Norfolk and Virginia Beach. Primarily Interstates 64, 264 and 564) Area 33 Office
(Counties of Gloucester, Mathews and Middlesex) Area 34 Office (Counties of Isle of Wight and Southampton) Area 35 Office (Counties of Brunswick and Greensville) Area 36 Office (Counties
of Surry and Sussex) Area 37 Office (Counties of James City and York) Area 46 Office (Cities of Hampton, Newport News, and Hampton Roads Bridge-Tunnel (including the approach roads
thereto. Primarily Interstates 64, 264, 664) Area 47 Office (Cities of Chesapeake, Portsmouth, and Suffolk. Primarily Interstates 64, 464, 564) Area 38 Office (Counties of Alleghany, Bath,
and Highland) Area 39 Office (Counties of Botetourt and Rockbridge) Area 40 Office (Counties of Craig, Montgomery, Roanoke and Floyd) Area 41 Office (Counties of Bedford and Franklin)
Area 42 Office (Counties of Henry and Patrick) Area 43 Office (County of Pittsylvania) Division Seven - Fairfax Area 9 Office (Fairfax County: Patrol responsibility for I-66 from its intersection
with 1-495 to the Fairfax/Prince William County line. Patrol responsibility for 1-495 from its intersection with I-95 to the Maryland State line.) Area 10 Office (Loudoun County) Area 11 Office
(Prince william County, primarily I-95) Area 45 Office (Arlington County, Fairfax County, Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church: Patrol responsibility for 1-395 inside the Capital Beltway to the
Washington, D.C. city line. Patrol responsibility for 1-66 from its intersection with I-495 to the Washington, D.C. city line. Patrol responsibility for the Dulles Toll Road from its intersection with
1-66 to the Fairfax/Loudoun County line.) Area 48 Office (Fairfax County, City of Alexandria: Patrol responsibility for I-95 from the Prince William/Fairfax County line to the Maryland State
line.) [11] [] edit Aviation Unit The Virginia State Police Aviation Unit was formed on January 1, 1984, to provide for the administration and coordination of the department s aviation
resources. During its 23 year existence, the Aviation Unit has recorded 87,496 flight hours responding to 58,618 flight requests. The Virginia State Police has four aviation bases. They are
located in Chesterfield (central VA), Abingdon (south west VA), Manassas (northern VA), and in Lynchburg (western VA). VSP Bell 407 The BK117 and BO-105 s are primarily used for medical
evacuation operation. The Unit s primary mission is to provide aircraft for: Medical Evacuation [] edit Medical Evacuation The Department operates three helicopter medical evacuation
programs that serve Central and Southwest Virginia. These programs provide rapid response, advanced medical procedures, and transport for critically injured patients to level one trauma
centers. Combined, these programs serve 43 hospitals and the citizens residing in 59 counties and 34 cities. Med-Flight I began operations on April 1, 1984, and responds to calls for assistance
in a 60 mile radius of Richmond. Med-Flight IT began operations on January 1, 1987 and responds to calls for assistance in a 60 mile radius of Abingdon. Med-Flight III began operations on
September 1, 2000, and responds to calls for assistance predominately along the Lynchburg-Route 29 corridor to Danville and in a 60 mile radius of Lynchburg. From April 1, 1984 to December
21, 2005, the Med-Flight programs have responded to 17,627 calls and transported 12,306 patients. [] edit Search and Rescue Utilizing a Forward Looking Infra-Red system on one helicopter
and a 30 million candlepower searchlight on the other helicopters, the Unit has been successful in locating fugitives, missing persons, and lost children. [] edit Surveillance The Aviation Unit
also utilizes aircraft to conduct surveillances, and in 2005 received the following requests: 81 for drug or narcotic surveillance 81 for other criminal surveillance matters 28 miscellaneous
assistance surveillance As a result, 20 arrests were made and 1,865 marijuana plants were located at a value of $1,865,000.00. [] edit Other Law Enforcement Duties The Aviation Unit
provides aerial support to any federal, state, or municipal agency whereby the solution of a police problem or mission may be obtained. The requests included photographing crime scenes,
providing support for presidential motorcades, participating in multi-agency task force efforts, and demonstrations of the capabilities of the Aviation Unit s aircraft. [12] [] edit Executive
Protective Unit (EPU) The primary responsibilities of the Executive Protective Unit are to provide security and transportation for the Governor and immediate family members. The most capable
personnel from the Department are selected for this assignment to maintain a high level of loyalty, trust, and respect between the Governor and each trooper. In addition to providing security,
this unit must coordinate with the Governor's staff regarding the Governor's scheduling, travel arrangements, lodging, and other necessary commitments to ensure cohesive and orderly activity.
 There are times when out-of-state governors and other dignitaries visit the Commonwealth, and this unit coordinates their security needs and itineraries to ensure travel requirements and
appointments are synchronized with those of the Governor. [13] [] edit D.A.R.E. Office Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) is a validated, copyrighted, comprehensive drug and
violence prevention education program for children in kindergarten through 12th grade. D.A.R.E. represents a collaborative effort between school and law enforcement personnel. D.A.R.E. is 2
cooperative program by the Virginia State Police, the Virginia Department of Education and local law enforcement agencies and school divisions. The primary goals of D.A.R.E. are to prevent
substance abuse among school children (juveniles) and help them develop effective violence resistance techniques. The core curriculum targets young children to prepare them to avoid
substance abuse and violence as they enter adolescence. The Department of State Police through the Virginia State D.A.R.E. Training Center is dedicated to the D.A.R.E, Program perpetuation
and expansion in Virginia. The agency as a whole supports the mission of D.A.R.E. In addition to the various D.A.R.E, Curricula, D.A.R.E. Officers have delivered presentations covering various
topics to 495,265 citizens throughout the Commonwealth. These topics have included crime prevention topics such as Halloween safety tips, seat belts, child seats, Class Action, and many
other related subjects. [14] [] edit Safety Division The VSP Safety Division consists of two sections; the and the Unit. There are seven area offices, one located in each field Division.Motor
Vehicle Safety Inspection ProgramMotor Carrier Safety Area 61- Richmond Area 67 - Fairfax Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program The purpose of the program and the inspection itself is
so that vehicles operating on the highways of Virginia meet minimum safety requirements, thus reducing crashes due to defective equipment. This section investigates inspection complaints,
monitors all inspection stations, conducts examinations for inspectors and provides inspection materials (manuals / stickers) for the licensed stations. As of December 31, 2006, there were
4,235 active inspection stations located throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia. There were 14,308 licensed safety inspectors who performed approximately 7,792,000 inspections at
appointed stations during 2006. Approximately 24% (1,910,000 vehicles) of all vehicles submitted for inspection were rejected for unsafe components. Motor Cartier Safety Unit The motor
carrier safety and hazardous materials units were created in 1982. In 1995 the Motor Carrier Safety Unit was made a part of the Safety Division. The department's Motor Carrier Safety teams
ensure that trucks and buses meet safety requirements on Virginia highways. Troopers assigned to the Motor Carrier Safety program regularly present lectures to the public and other interested
groups on motor cartier safety and hazardous materials regulations. They also serve as instructors in criminal justice training seminars. Motor Carrier Safety teams respond to hazardous
material spills or incidents and conduct post-crash investigations of heavy commercial vehicles involved in accidents. Data indicates that during 2006, Troopers conducted 40,730 in-depth
inspections on heavy commercial vehicles and 9,588 of these, or 23.5 percent, were placed out of service for violations of regulations governing safety equipment and transportation of
hazardous materials. [15] [] edit Commercial Vehicle Enforcement In 1982 Inspectors from the Department of Motor Vehicles were transferred to the Department of State Police and received
training at the State Police Academy. After 12 weeks of instruction and graduation, Weight Enforcement Officers (WEO) were assigned to the 11 weigh stations across the state for the purpose
of enforcing commercial vehicle laws. These WEO's were the precursor positions to CVEO's. The Department has 55 Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Officers (CVEO) whose primary
responsibilities include the inspection and measurement of commercial vehicles that utilize the highways of the Commonwealth. During 2004, approximately 16.2 million commercial vehicles
passed through Virginia's 13 permanent weigh stations for inspection. Through the inspection of these vehicles and through other enforcement initiatives, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement
Officers issued 73,038 summonses and made 303 criminal arrests. This program is vital to Virginia's overall highway safety program through the protection of roadways from overweight and
oversized vehicles; through assurances that commercial vehicles are mechanically safe to operate on the highways; and through the validation of all commercial vehicle operators to ensure
they are properly licensed to operate a commercial vehicles in the Commonwealth. [16] [] edit Crime Prevention THe VSP provides specialized training to selected troopers throughout the
State in crime prevention and personal safety. Participating troopers receive training in "Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design" (CPTED), business security and techniques to promote
personal safety. All training is part of an intensified crime prevention curriculum that enables troopers to achieve certification through the Department of Criminal Justice Services as crime
prevention specialists. [17] [] edit Motorist Assistance Program The Motorist Assistance Program operated by the VSP currently operates in the four largest metropolitan areas in Virginia with
operations in Chesapeake, Fairfax, Richmond and in the Roanoke/Salem areas. State Police motorist assistance aides provide services such as fixing flat tires, providing gasoline, jump-starting
vehicles, traffic control, and making cellular phone calls for additional assistance or to notify family members of a stranded motorist's situation. Motorist Assistance Aides also were instrumental
in the arrest of drunk drivers and aggressive drivers by reporting erratic driving behavior to troopers who subsequently made the apprehension. [18] [] edit Specialty Teams Each of the seven
field divisions deploys tactical teams, canine teams and SCUBA teams. These teams are available 24 hours a day to assist local law enforcement agencies or State Police personnel. Tactical
teams assist in the execution of high-risk search or arrest warrants and in dealing with hostage situations. Canine teams are available to track lost persons or fugitives, search for suspects of
crimes, and detect illegal drugs, explosives, or accelerants used in arsons. SCUBA teams are used to recover drowning victims, conduct swift water rescues, or search for evidence of criminal
activity. Troopers apply for specialties and are selected by supervisors in those programs. Troopers who are selected for specialties receive no extra compensation. Canine Program In 1961 the
canine program was instituted to afford the State Police and all enforcement agencies the tracking abilities of German shepherd dogs. One trooper and canine were assigned to each State Police
division, In 1988 the Department initiated narcotic canine and handler training for Department personnel and local police agencies. Canine Teams are available to track lost persons or fugitives,
search for suspects, and detect illegal drugs, explosives or accelerants used in arsons. At the present time, there are two canine training facilities operated by the Department. The first is,
located at the Training Academy in Richmond and the second is located at the Abingdon Regional Jail in Washington County. The VSP trains selected troopers to become Canine Handlers in one
of five areas. Patrol and Apprehension (As of 2006 there are 13 Patrol Canine Teams) Narcotics Detection (As of 2006 there are 19 Narcotics Canine Teams) Explosive and Weapons Detection
(As of 2006 there are 19 Explosives Canine Teams) Accelerant Detection (As of 2006 there are 2 Accelerant Canine Teams) Search and Rescue (The VSP currently has 1 Bloodhound located
centrally in the state) Throughout the programs history several types of canines have been utilized. Rottweiler's, German Shepherd's, Labrador Retriever's, Belgian Malinois's and the recent
addition of a Bloodhound have been used for specific duties. The VSP trains their canines in one area and does not cross train. Tactical Team Program Within each of the seven State Police field
divisions, a Tactical Operation Team is maintained. These teams are available to assist local agencies and other State Police members in the arrest and apprehension of individuals known to
pose a threat to law enforcement officials and in other situations where there is a risk to police officer safety. SCUBA Program In 1962 the State Police began training and equipping troopers
with . Self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (SCUBA) allowed troopers to search for victims of drowning or homicide, discarded firearms or evidence. SCUBA equipment The
department s Search and Recovery Team (SART) conducts search and recovery and rescue operations throughout Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Kentucky, assisting both state and
local agencies. The department s SAR Team continues to expand its capabilities through a proactive approach in recoveries as well as our rescue missions. This approach includes, but is
limited to, liaison with other departments, proactively searching believed criminal dump sites and maintaining professional performance through innovative training and equipment acquisition
[19] [J edit Bureau of Criminal Investigations (BCI) The Virginia State Police provides a thorough and comprehensive investigation of all criminal matters mandated by statute and established
Department policy through the Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI). The Bureau is mandated to investigate any matter referred by the Governor. The Attomey General, commonwealth's
attorneys, chiefs of police, sheriffs and grand juries may request the Department to investigate matters that constitute Class 1, 2 or 3 felonies. The Bureau also conducts investigations of
elected officials when directed by the Governor, Attorney General or grand juries. The Bureau consists of the Criminal Intelligence Division, Support Services Division, General Investigation
Section, and Drug Enforcement Section. Seven field offices, located around Virginia, investigate crimes and provide specialized technical and forensic support. [20] [] edit Criminal Intelligence
Division The primary purpose of the Criminal Intelligence Division (CID) is to provide criminal intelligence and technical support to local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies on matters
pertaining to the Commonwealth of Virginia. A major goal of CID is to identify, document, and disseminate criminal intelligence concerning persons involved in organized crime, terrorist groups,
and those crimes involving multi-jurisdictional or serial crimes. The Division is composed of six sections - the Research Unit, the Analytical Unit of the Virginia Criminal Intelligence Center
(VCIC), the Field Intelligence Unit, the Technical Support Unit, and the Virginia Fusion Center. [] edit Research and Analytical CID operates the VCIC, which is a repository of intelligence
information that is available to all Virginia law enforcement personnel. VCIC personnel provide research and analytical support to criminal justice agencies. Seven analysts process and
disseminate information related to crime trends, possible solutions, and potential criminal activity. One special agent in the research unit interacts with investigators and task forces to
coordinate the violent crimes database, and handle INTERPOL requests. [] edit Field Intelligence The unit operates to improve intelligence collection and dissemination, to gather tactical
intelligence in support of criminal investigations, and to use intelligence in support of strategic planning. Intelligence agents will coordinate the intelligence gathering and information
dissemination as well as coordinating the functions of the Criminal Intelligence Division and the Virginia Criminal Intelligence Center and the Virginia Fusion Center at the field office level. This
will be accomplished through strong liaison and interaction with department personnel and local law enforcement counterparts. VCIC is also responsible for: Virginia Narcotics Pointer Index
system Drug Information Hotline: 1-800-553-DOPE The Department participates in the Virginia Association of Law Enforcement Intelligence Documentation (VALID) and publishes a monthly
intelligence bulletin. The VALIDATOR is disseminated throughout the intelligence community and is produced by CID analysts. [] edit Virginia Fusion Center The VFC is the Information
Classification Unit (ICU) that will act as the information management mechanism for all incoming information to the VEC. The ICU will classify, prioritize, and determine initial dissemination of
the information. The Virginia Counter-Terrorism Unit (VCTU) will review, correlate, analyze, disseminate, and file the information received from the ICU. In addition, the VCTU will prepare
reports, provide in-depth analysis, and support directed intelligence operations related to terrorism in the Commonwealth of Virginia and in conjunction with the Department of Emergency
Management. [] edit Computer Evidence Recovery Unit (CERU) The primary purpose of the Computer Evidence Recovery Unit is to provide computer evidence recovery services, forensic
examination services, and expert testimony for law enforcement agencies through in-depth examinations of computer data stored or seized during the course of a criminal investigation. [] edit
Technical Support Unit In 2004 the Technical Support Unit received 759 requests for service. Of those requests, 299 were in support of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. Each
request was directly related to ongoing criminal investigations, which were supported with the installation of technical equipment. The unit continues to support significant investigations and
uses sophisticated methods and technologies to assist any requesting law enforcement agency. The unit continues to provide audio enhancement services to all law enforcement agencies as
well as supporting the courts and Commonwealth s attorneys offices through installation and operation of closed circuit television systems for victims of child abuse cases. The
Hostage/Barricade Response Program was developed in 1997 to support federal, state and local law enforcement through the deployment of technical equipment and personnel resources. The
Unit responded to 7 Hostage/Barticade incident requests in 2004. [] edit Closed Circuit Television Testimony Program Virginia law ( 18.2-67.9) permits the use of closed-circuit television in
any criminal proceeding, including preliminary hearings, involving an alleged offense against a child fourteen years of age or under relating to a violation of laws pertaining to kidnapping,
criminal sexual assault or certain family offenses. A 2001 amendment allows for closed-circuit television in cases involving murder of a person of any age. Civil proceedingsinvolving abuse or
neglect of a child (63.2-1521 or 16.1-252) also permit the use of closed-circuit testimony. A child witness who is fourteen years of age or under at the time oftestimony may also qualify for the
use of closed-circuit testimony. The prosecution, guardian ad litem, or defense must ask the court for an order allowing forthe use of closed-circuit television; and the requesting party should
contact the StatePolice in writing to request the service. The statute requires that the party seeking theorder from the court allowing the use of closed-circuit television apply for it at leastseven
days in advance for a criminal hearing and two days in advance for a civil hearing. This service is provided by BCI's Technical Support Unit at no cost to a local court on afirst-come first-served
basis. [21] [] edit Support Services Division The Support Services Division (SSD) was established in 2004. The SSD is responsible for the law enforcement training, public awareness
campaigns and insurance industry outreach programs for both the Insurance Fraud Program (IFP) and Help Eliminate Auto Theft (H.E.A.T.). The Bomb, Arson and Drug Diversion units also
make up the SSD as well as the Counter-Terrorism & Criminal Interdiction Unit (CCI). The SSD provides technical, training and financial management support for these units. [22] The H.E.A.T.
and Insurance Fraud toll-free telephone hotlines are administered and maintained by the SSD. Initial notifications of suspected insurance fraud and auto theft activities are received via the SSD
hotlines, Web sites, e-mails, faxes and phone calls. The notifications are reviewed and distributed to the appropriate local law enforcement agencies or to the Bureau of Criminal Investigation s
field offices where investigations are conducted by the Department s special agents on a case-by-case basis. [] edit General Investigation Section The General Investigation Section (GIS) is
served by seven Field Offices, commanded by a Captain, two Lieutenants and four to six First Sergeants. Each Field Office employs from 10 to 25 Special Agents. Special Agents investigate the
following types of crimes and/or participate in the following activities: Class 1, 2 & 3 Felony Crimes Arson