Jan 12, 2009 APM receives $2.95 million grant American Public Media for three years by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation for the network's citizen journalist project. encourages the
MPR audience to become involved in the news-gathering process. More than 70,000 radio listeners and website users are signed up to participate. has been granted $2.95 million "Public Insight
Journalism" posted at EST 3:56 PM Six Silver Batons for pubcasters of the 13 duPont-Columbia awards by Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. Silver Batons recognizing
excellence in broadcast journalism went to: for its coverage of the that devastated China's Sichuan Province in May 2008; "TM" by Laura Sullivan, a two-part report that aired on in July 2007; and
"" one-hour documentary on the subprime mortgage crisis that produced in collaboration with . PBS's duPont winners are "", a documentary presented on , and"," a four-hour series on racial
and economic disparities in health care by California Newsreel and Vital Pictures. In addition, Oregon Public Broadcasting won for , a local documentary on environmental threats posed by
invasive plants and insects. NPR News won three announced today All Things Considered earthquake Sexual Abuse of Native American Women ATC Giant Pool of Money This American Life NPR
News Abduction: The Megumi Yokota Story Independent Lens Unnatural Causes: Is Inequality Making Us Sick? The Silent Invasion posted at EST 2:08 PM ITVS launches new blog ITVS has
launched the an extension of its monthly newsletter by the same name. The blog/website will serve as the central location for ITVS news and updates about funding, docs and events and
"create more and better opportunities to showcase ITVS-funded projects with filmmaker profiles, production and broadcast updates, video clips and more," according to an introductory post by
Sally Jo Fifer, president. blog "Beyond the Box," posted at EST 1:48 PM DTV history analysis Analysis of the DTV transition problems continues. Here's reminding readers that a good piece
from Congressional Quarterly the transition has been contemplated in Washington for more than two decades and, as one telecom expert says, "... The single biggest problem with the digital
TV transition: It nobody baby." posted at EST 12:54 PM Muppets go green for Earth Day Sesame Workshop is releasing an environmental-theme DVD, on Earth Day, April 7. On that link,
don't miss the photos of actor Paul Rudd enjoying himself in a rotund Earth costume. "Sesame Street: Being Green," posted at EST 12:08 PM New Obama bio from Frontline On January 20,
inauguration day, , a new personal and political biography from producer Michael Kirk that begins with Obama's days at Harvard Law School and traces his path to the office of President. The
full program is already on 's website.Frontline will broadcast Dreams of Obama available online Frontline posted at EST 12:06 PM Jan 11, 2009 Feb. 17: What the heck just happened? Since
2005, a whole slew of us -- consumers, manufacturers, public officials ~ have been learning about or working toward digital TV transition on Feb. 17. So why, with just a month to go, might
that date be pushed back? mulls how Feb. 17 went from set in stone to writ in sand in a mere week. John Eggerton of Broadcasting & Cable posted at EST 1:46 PM Digital radio spreading
worldwide A panel of experts in Britain recommended last month that the country begin switching off the analog radio airwaves around 2017 and Digital radio is slowly gaining interest
internationally: Australia will roll out in May, and Germany will announce plans soon. transition to digital radio. posted at EST 9:57 AM Jan 10, 2009 It's FCCer vs. FCCer on DTV date For
those of you keeping score at home, please mark one more for, one more against moving the DTV transition date. Add the FCC chair to the "nay" list, those opposing the delay. says pushing
back the long-planned Feb. 17 date would be "confusing" for consumers. Meanwhile, on the "yay" side, FCC commish says it's "just as well" the date changes because consumers can't get
through to the help lines anyway. Both made their comments at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. FCC head Kevin Martin Jonathan Adelstein posted at EST 9:54 PM
Public safety officials oppose DTV delay Add police and fire chiefs to the growing list of folks weighing in on a possible delay of the DTV transition date, due to problems with the converter
coupon program. says if there is indeed a delay, it needs to exclude channels on spectrum to be used for public safety communications. The Association of Public Safety Communications
Officials posted at EST 8:28 AM Jan 9, 2009 MPR asks St. Paul for assurance regarding light-rail plans Minnesota Public Radio is locked in a dispute with city planners in its hometown of St.
Paul over a proposed light-rail line that will run by the network's headquarters. MPR that it fears the line will cause irreparable harm to its headquarters with excessive noise and vibrations
near recording studios. If the city cant provide a mitigation plan by March 1 that convinces MPR, the network said this week, the line should be moved. The citys Metropolitan Council : "MPR
should get on board with the Metropolitan Council, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Ramsey County and Hennepin County to help make this transit line a reality  not jeopardize its chances of winning
federal funding that is essential for construction, said planners. in the St. Paul . says on its website argues back on its website More coverage Pioneer Press posted at EST 10:28 PM Past
FCCers join call for DTV date push-back Former FCCers william Kennard and Michael Powell support delaying the Feb. 17 DTV transition. In , the two say: "There is no reason to rush toward a
fiasco when we can just as well take the time to make sure the change happens smoothly." an op-ed piece in the New York Times posted at EST 12:08 PM Secretary of Culture idea gets
grassroots support Former National Endowment for the Humanities Chairman William R. Ferris -- including CPB, NPR and PBS -- is generating excitement. now has more than 23,000
signatures. is hot on the concept, and says he's going to be speaking directly with President-elect Obama about it. idea for a Cabinet-level position to oversee the arts and humanities An online
petition Music legend Quincy Jones posted at EST 11:38 AM Alabama net axes show, plans layoffs Alabama Public Television will cancel a long-running public affairs show and lay off other
staffers as it aims to offset state budget cuts, . will go off the air next month after a 25-year run, and anchor Tim Lennox will be let go. Other layoffs were expected to be announced today. The
state has reduced its contribution to APT's budget by more than $3 million since fiscal year 2008, when it gave $11 million in support to the network. reports the Huntsville Times For the Record
 posted at EST 10:47 AM KPCC to open D.C. bureau KPCC in Pasadena, Calif., will open a news bureau in Washington, D.C., making it the first public radio station in the country to have a
satellite office in the nations capital. The bureau will be staffed by KPCCs kitty Felde. . KPCC is owned by American Public Media Group, the parent company of American Public Media and
Minnesota Public Radio. In 2007, APMG in D.C. Details at LA Observed sought to launch a news station posted at EST 10:31 AM Cooney Center calls for mobile leaning strategy The has
released a report, , detailing the "untapped potential" of education through devices such as iPods and cell phones. The report calls for new investments in R&D, establishing a digital teachers
corps, creating a White House initiative on digital learning, and modifying classroom access. The report will be finalized next week. Joan Ganz Cooney Center at Sesame Workshop Pockets of
Potential: Using Mobile Technologies to Promote Children Learning posted at EST 9:48 AM Jan 8, 2009 NTIA opposes DTV date move Commerce's National Telecommunications and
Information Administration insists the digital transition can and should occur Feb. 17 as planned. quoting Meredith Attwell Baker, acting NTIA head, appears to place at least some of the blame
for the coupon shortage on consumers and Congress: "Since the program began in January 2008, NTIA has urged households to apply for coupons as soon as possible, so they can be fully
prepared by February 17, 2009. We have been communicating with Congress throughout the Program and advised as early as November 6 that coupon demand may hit the $1.34 billion
obligation limit by mid-January. Its Jan. 8 statement posted at EST 8:20 PM Obama team, Rockefeller back DTV delay John Podesta, transition team co-chair for President-elect Barack
Obama, has . Congress had set Feb. 17, so another law would need to pass to change the date. , Podesta calls government funding for the DTV converter box coupon program as well as
educational efforts for consumers "woefully inadequate." Transition officials estimate more than 5 million "unhonored requests" for the coupons by February. Podesta adds that Obama will
include resources for assistance to viewers in the economic recovery package. Democratic Sen. Jay Rockefeller, who chairs the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, says he
supports "delaying the current date ... until we can do it right." delivered a letter to Congress advising the DTV transition be put off In his letter In a statement posted at EST 4:26 PM
Pubcasting fan Markey shifts posts Massachusetts Democratic Rep. Edward Markey, a longtime supporter of pubcasting, is shifting between subcommittees of the powerful House Energy and
Commerce committee. He's vacating his chair of Communications, Technology and the Intemet to head up Energy and Environment. Replacing him will be , an advocate for President-elect
Barack Obama's government funding for rural broadband. Boucher is currently sponsoring a bill to provide government subsidies for rooftop antennas to help viewers through the DTV
transition. Virgina Rep. Rick Boucher posted at EST 12:59 PM PBS unveils new shows, will not unveil Lear's "full monty" PBS announced three new shows at the Television Critics Association
press tour yesterday. Ken Burns film picks up where his 1994 left off and will air in Spring 2010. The producers of will bring another behind-the-scenes reality series to pubTV next year:span
class="Apple-style-span" style="font-style: italic;">, which follows the Big Apple Circus around the country. , a new science show for preschoolers from , follows the adventures of Buddy, a
preschool-aged Tyrannosaurus Rex, and his family of Pteranodons.n other news, PBS said it will of Ian McKellan's n so the King's manhood is hidden from view. How PBS would handle the
nudity was one of the critics' favorite topics at last year's summer press tour. The Tenth Inning Baseball Carrier Circus Dinosaur Train The Jim Henson Company alter its filmed production King
LearGreat Performances posted at EST 10:25 AM Syracuse Universitys Newhouse School of Public Communications will accept Mirror Award entries through Feb. 6. No entry fee. Guidelines
and entry forms online at . Questions? Jean Brooks at 315.443.5711 or mirror syr.edu. Did you do reporting or commentary about media industries in 2008? mirrorawards.syr.edu Feb. 18 is
the annual application deadline for the Rural Utilities Service's Public Television Digital Transition Grant Program. Last years grants totaling $5 million were used for power upgrades, translator
stations, master control and digital production equipment as well as DTV transmitters, according to USDA's in November (PDF). are online. USDA also set a March 24 deadline for grants aiding
projects in rural areas.Public TV stations serving rural populations can get up to $750,000 each for digital transition aid from the Agriculture Department. Federal Register notice Application
materials distance-learning and telemedicine The application deadline is Jan. 30 for the Bay Area Video Coalitions 10-day creative incubator, with high-level technical mentors, for stations and
independent producers to develop an interactive application for possible funding. The Producers Institute for New Media Technologies begins late in May. Prototypes may include such projects as
mobile apps, games, maps, social networks and virtual worlds. More info atWant to develop a community-engagement project prototype? www.bavc.org/ producersinstitute. Proposals for New
Voices start-up grants are due Feb. 12, according to J-Lab, the Institute for Interactive Journalism. Eligible projects would serve a defined community, foster exchange of sound information and
innovate in use of new technologies. The competition, funded by the Knight Foundation, will award eight grants of up ot $25,000 each. Earlier this year J-Lab moved from the University of
Maryland to American University in Washington, D.C. Web: .J-Lab offers aid for participatory local news ventures. www.J-NewVoices.org Programs distributed by broadcast, cable or the Web
during calendar 2008 are eligible. are on the University of Georgia's website. Phone: 706-542-3787. E-mail: peabodyuga.edu.Jan. 15 is the deadline for this year's George Foster Peabody
Awards competition. Details Speakers will include Google CEO Eric Schmidt, The Human Spark host Alan Alda, autistic scholar Temple Grandin and Kenneth Robinson, expert on creativity.
Though most of the 8,000 educators who attended last year were from the metro area, the organizers welcome others. Lowest registration rates available through Nov. 10. The site, as last
year, is the New York Hilton. Info at . See s article onWNET/WLIW will hold its fourth annual Celebration of Teaching & Learning March 6-7, 2009, in New York City. www.thirteen celebration.org
Current! last year's celebration. Its Computer-Assisted Reporting Conference will be held March 19-22 in Indianapolis. Registration information is available IRE's main annual conference will be
held June 11-14 in Baltimore Details to come: Investigative Reporters and Editors have set dates for their '09 conferences. online. ire.org. Entries are judged by more than 50 journalists.
Separate awards are given for professional and college and high school journalists. More info: Simone Greggs, 202-463-7575, ext. 234, or greggsrfkmemorial.org.Jan. 31 is the next entry
deadiine for the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Awards, which honor reporting on social justice issues and the disadvantaged. PDF brochure. The intemational public TV screening will be held
May 10-15, 2009, in the Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw, organized by Telewizja Polska (TVP). For more information about next year's event, see Information for U.S. participants is
available from Terry Pound and Amy Shumaker at Also online: information looking back at the in Johannesburg.Input goes to Warsaw next year. www.input-2009.org. South Carolina ETV. 2008
Input Selectionsfrom newspaperCurrent