[] edit Historical background Richard Nixon had been elected President in 1968, promising to end the . In November 1969, the was exposed, prompting widespread outrage around the world
and leading to increased public opposition to the war. In addition, the following month saw the first instituted since . The war had appeared to be winding down throughout 1969, so the new
angered those who believed it only exacerbated the conflict. Many young people, including college students and teachers, were concemed about being drafted to fight in a war that they
strongly opposed. The expansion of that war into another country appeared to them to have increased that risk, though the number of troops serving in Vietnam peaked in 1967, well before
that time. Across the country, campuses erupted in protests in what called "a nation-wide student strike", setting the stage for the events of early May 1970. Vietnam War My Lai Massacre draft
lottery World War II invasion of Cambodia Time Map of the shootings. [] edit Thursday, April 30 President announced to the nation that an incursion into Cambodia had been launched by
United States combat forces. Richard Nixon [] edit Friday, May 1 At Kent State University, a demonstration with about 500 students was held on on the Commons (a grassy knoll in the center
of campus traditionally used as a gathering place for rallies or protests). As the crowd dispersed to attend classes by 1 p.m. another rally was planned for to continue the protest of Nixon's
expansion of the Vietnam war into . There was widespread anger, and many protesters issued a call to "bring the war home." As a symbolic protest to Nixon's decision to send troops, a group of
students watched a graduate student burying a copy of the while another student bumed his . [8] May 1 May 4 Cambodia U.S. Constitution draft card Trouble exploded in town around
midnight when people left a bar and began throwing beer bottles at cars and breaking downtown store fronts. In the process they broke a bank window which set off an alarm. The news spread
quickly and it resulted in several bars closing early to avoid trouble. Before long more people had joined the vandalism and looting. By the time police arrived, a crowd of about 100 had already
gathered. Some people from the crowd had already lit a small bonfire in the street. The crowd appeared to be a mix of bikers, students, and out-of town youths who regularly came to Kent's
bars. A few members of the crowd began to throw beer bottles at the police, and then started yelling obscenities at them. The disturbance lasted for about an hour before the police restored
order. By that time most of the bars were closed in the downtown area of Kent. [] edit Saturday, May 2 Kent's Mayor declared a on and, later that afternoon, asked Ohio Governor to send the
to Kent to help maintain order. Leroy Satrom state of emergency May 2 James A. Rhodes National Guard When the National Guard arrived in town that evening (at around 10 P.M.), a large
demonstration was already under way on the campus, and the campus (ROTC) building (which had been boarded up and scheduled for demolition) was burning. The were never apprehended
and no one was injured in the fire. More than a thousand protesters surrounded the building and cheered the building's burning. While attempting to extinguish the fire, several Kent firemen
and police officers were hit with rocks and other objects by those standing near the fire. More than one fire engine company had to be called in because protesters carried the fire hose into the
Commons and slashed it. The National Guard made many arrests, was used, and at least one student was wounded with a . Reserve Officer Training Corps [] citation needed arsonists [9] [10]
[11] tear gas bayonet [12] [] edit Sunday, May 3 By Sunday, , there were nearly 1,000 National Guardsmen on campus to control the students. May 3 During a press conference, Governor
Rhodes called the protesters un-American and referred to the protesters as revolutionaries set on destroying higher education in Ohio. "They're worse than the and the element and also the
and the vigilantes," Rhodes said. "They're the worst type of people that we harbor in America. I think that we're up against the strongest, well-trained, militant, revolutionary group that has
ever assembled in America." brown shirts communist night riders [13] Rhodes also claimed he would obtain a court order declaring a state of emergency, banning further demonstrations, and
gave the impression that a situation akin to had been declared; however he never attempted to obtain such an order. martial law [14] During the day some students came into downtown Kent
to help with cleanup efforts after the rioting, which met with mixed reactions from local businessmen. Mayor Satrom, under pressure from frightened citizens, ordered a curfew until further
notice. Around 8:00 p.m., another rally was held on the campus Commons. By 8:45 p.m. the Guard used tear gas to disperse the crowd, and the students reassembled at the intersection of
Lincoln and Main Streets, holding a sit-in in the hopes of gaining a meeting with Mayor Satrom and President White. At 11:00 p.m., the Guard announced that a curfew had gone into effect and
began forcing the students back to their dorms. Ten Guardsmen were injured and a few students were by Guardsmen. [12] bayoneted [1] [] edit Monday, May 4 This section needs additional
for . citations verification Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed. improve this article reliable references challenged (February 2008) Another photo taken at almost
the same time as the iconic Filo image; this one was taken by Howard Ruffner. On Monday, , a protest was scheduled to be held at noon, as had been planned three days earlier. University
officials attempted to ban the gathering, handing out 12,000 leaflets stating that the event was canceled. Despite this, an estimated 2,000 people gathered on the university's Commons, near
Taylor Hall. The protest began with the ringing of the campus's iron Victory Bell (which had historically been used to signal victories in football games) to mark the beginning of the rally, and the
first protester began to speak. May 4 [15] Fearing that the situation might escalate into another violent protest, Companies A and C, 1/14Sth Infantry and Troop G of the 2/107th Armored
Cavalry, Ohio ARNG, the units on the campus grounds, attempted to disperse the students. The legality of the dispersal was later debated at a subsequent wrongful death and injury trial. On
appeal, the ruled that authorities did indeed have the right to disperse the crowd. United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit The dispersal process began late in the morning with
campus police official Harold Rice, riding in a Guard Jeep, approaching the students to read them an order to disperse or face arrest. In response, the protesters pelted the Jeep with rocks,
forcing it to retreat and injuring one Guardsman in the attack. [16] [] citation needed Just before noon, the Guard returned and again ordered the crowd to disperse. When most of the crowd
refused, the Guard used . Because of wind, the tear gas had little effect in dispersing the crowd, and some began a second rock attack with chants of "Pigs off campus!" The students lobbed the
tear gas canisters back at the National Guardsmen; however, they had put on upon first throwing tear gas at the students. tear gas gas masks When it was obvious the crowd was not going to
disperse, a group of 77 National Guard troops from A Company and Troop G, with fixed on their , began to advance upon the hundreds of protesters. As the guardsmen advanced, the
protesters retreated up and over Blanket Hill, heading out of The Commons area. Once over the hill, the students, in a loose group, moved northeast along the front of Taylor Hall, with some
continuing toward a parking lot in front of Prentice Hall (slightly northeast of and perpendicular to Taylor Hall). The guardsmen pursued the protesters over the hill, but rather than veering left
as the protesters had, they continued straight, heading down toward an athletic practice field enclosed by a chain link fence. Here they remained for about ten minutes, unsure of how to get
out of the area short of retracing their entrance path (an action some guardsmen considered might be viewed as a retreat. During this time, the bulk of the students congregated off to the left
and front of the guardsmen, approximately 50 to 75 meters away, on the veranda of Taylor Hall. Others were scattered between Taylor Hall and the Prentice Hall parking lot, while still others,
perhaps 35 or 40, were standing in the parking lot, or dispersing through the lot as they had been previously ordered. bayonets weapons While on the practice field, the guardsmen generally
faced the parking lot which was about 100 yards away. At one point, some of the guardsmen knelt and aimed their weapons toward the parking lot, then stood up again. For a few moments,
several guardsmen formed a loose huddle and appeared to be talking to one another. The guardsmen appeared to be unclear as to what to do next. They had cleared the protesters from the
Commons area, and many students had left, but many stayed and were still angrily confronting the soldiers, some throwing rocks and tear gas canisters. At the end of about ten minutes, the
guardsmen began to retrace their steps back up the hill toward the Commons area. Some of the students on the Taylor Hall veranda began to move slowly toward the soldiers as the latter
passed over the top of the hill and headed back down into the Commons. At this point, at 12:22 PM, a number of guardsmen at the top of the hill abruptly tured and fired their rifles at the
students. The guardsmen directed their fire not at the closest students, who were on the Taylor Hall veranda, but at those on the grass area and concrete walkway below the veranda, at those
on the service road between the veranda and the parking lot, and at those in the parking lot. Bullets were not sprayed in all directions; instead, they were confined to a fairly limited line of fire
leading from the top of the hill to the parking lot. Not all the soldiers who fired their weapons directed their fire into the students. Some soldiers fired into the ground, while a few fired into the
air. In all, 29 of the 77 guardsmen claimed to have fired their weapons, using a final total of 67 bullets. The shooting was determined to have lasted only 13 seconds, although a reporter stated
that "it appeared to go on, as a solid volley, for perhaps a full minute or a little longer. The question of why the shots were fired remains widely debated. [1] M1 Garand New York Times The of
the Ohio National Guard told reporters that a had fired on the guardsmen, which itself remains a debated allegation. Many guardsmen later testified that they were in fear for their lives, which
was questioned partly because of the distance of the wounded students. magazine later concluded that "triggers were not pulled accidentally at Kent State". The avoided probing the question
regarding why the shootings happened. Instead, it harshly criticized both the protesters and the Guardsmen, but it concluded that "the indiscriminate firing of rifles into a crowd of students and
the deaths that followed were unnecessary, unwarranted, and inexcusable. Adjutant General sniper Time President's Commission on Campus Unrest On , , various reported the daim of a
former student who was injured in the shooting to have uncovered new evidence that the guardsmen had been ordered to fire upon the crowd. , a student who lived in a dormitory overlooking
the anti-war rally site, placed a microphone at a windowsill and recorded nearly 30 minutes of the event on reel-to-reel tape. He sent a copy of the tape to the FBI and kept a copy ina . The
government copy has been archived at . According to , who was injured in the wrist that day by a gunshot, a voice can be heard on the tape yelling, "Right here! Get Set! Point! Fire!" before
the 13-second volley of gunfire. Canfora said he has obtained a copy of that tape and that he plans to release it on CD. He wants the government to reopen the investigation. May 1 2007 news
agencies Terry Strubbe [17] safe deposit box Yale University Alan Canfora [17] [18] In another step toward this goal, Canfora provided a copy of the tape to musician of the bands and , and
co-founder of , who digitally enhanced the recording by boosting the volume level and removing . Ian MacKaye Minor Threat Fugazi Dischord Records tape hiss [17] [19] [20] The shootings
killed four students and wounded nine. Two of the four students killed, and , had participated in the protest, and the other two, and , had been walking from one class to the next at the time of
their deaths. Schroeder was also a member of the campus chapter. Of those wounded, none was closer than 71 feet to the guardsmen. Of those killed, the nearest (Miller) was 265 feet away,
and their average distance from the guardsmen was 345ft. Allison Krause Jeffrey Miller Sandra Scheuer William Knox Schroeder ROTC Killed (and approximate distance from the National
Guard): (265ft) shot through the mouth - killed instantly Jeffrey Glen Miller (343ft) fatal left chest wound Allison Krause (390ft) fatal neck wound Sandra Lee Scheuer Wounded (and
approximate distance from the National Guard): Joseph Lewis Jr. 71 ft (22 m); hit twice in the right abdomen and left lower leg John R. Cleary 110 ft (34 m); upper left chest wound Thomas
Mark Grace 225 ft (69 m); struck in left ankle 225 ft (69 m); hit in his right wrist Alan Canfora Dean Kahler 300 ft (91 m); back wound fracturing the vertebrae - permanently paralyzed from
the chest down Douglas A. Wrentmore 329 ft (100 m); hit in his right knee James Dennis Russell 375 ft (114 m); hit in his right thigh from a bullet and in the right forehead by birdshot - both
wounds minor {died 2007} Robert F. Stamps 495 ft (151 m); hit in his right buttock {died June 11, 2008} Donald Scott MacKenzie 750 ft (230 m); neck wound Immediately after the
shootings, many angry students were ready to launch an all-out attack on the National Guard. Many faculty members, led by geology professor and faculty marshal , pleaded with the students
to leave the Commons and to not give in to violent escalation, saying: Glenn Frank After 20 minutes of speaking, the students left the Commons, as ambulance personnel tended to the
wounded, and the Guard left the area."I don't care whether you've never listened to anyone before in your lives. I am begging you right now. If you don't disperse right now, they're going to
move in, and it can only be a slaughter. Would you please listen to me? Jesus Christ, I don't want to be a part of this...!"[] citation needed Although initial newspaper reports had inaccurately
stated that a number of National Guard members had been killed or seriously injured, only one Guardsman, Sgt. Lawrence Shafer, was injured seriously enough to require medical treatment,
approximately 10 to 15 minutes prior to the shootings. Shafer is also mentioned in a memo from , . The FBI memo was prepared by the Cleveland Office and is referred to by Field Office file #
44-703. It reads as follows: [21] November 15 1973 Upon contacting appropriate officers of the Ohio National Guard at Ravenna and Akron, Ohio, regarding ONG radio logs and the availability
of service record books, the respective ONG officer advised that any inquiries conceming the Kent State University incident should be direct to the Adjutant General, ONG, Columbus, Ohio.
Three persons interviewed regarding reported conversation by Sgt Lawrence Shafer, ONG, that Shafer had bragged about "taking a bead" on Jeffrey Miller at the time of the ONG shooting and
each interviewee unable to substantiate such a conversation.[] citation needed In an interview broadcast in 1986 on the documentary series , Shafer identified the person that he fired at as
Joseph Lewis. ABC News Our World [] edit Aftermath and long-term effects Photographs of the dead and wounded at Kent State that were distributed in newspapers and periodicals worldwide
amplified sentiment against the United States invasion of Cambodia and the Vietnam War in general. In particular, the camera of Kent State photojournalism student captured a fourteen-year
old runaway, , screaming over the body of the dead student, , who had been shot in the mouth. The photograph, which won a, became the most enduring image of the events, and one of the
most enduring images of the anti-Vietnam War movement. John Filo Mary Ann Vecchio Jeffrey Miller Pulitzer Prize The shootings led to protests on college campuses throughout the , and
causing more than 450 campuses across the country to close with both violent and non-violent demonstrations. A common sentiment was expressed by students at with a banner hung out of a
window which read "They Can't Kill Us Alll" United States student strike [22] New York University [23] Just five days after the shootings, 100,000 people demonstrated in against the war and
the killing of unarmed student protesters. Ray Price, Nixon's chief speechwriter from 1969-74 recalled the Washington demonstrations saying, "The city was an armed camp. The mobs were
smashing windows, slashing tires, dragging parked cars into intersections, even throwing bedsprings off overpasses into the traffic down below. This was the quote, student protest. That's not
student protest, that s civil war." Not only was Nixon taken to for two days for his own protection, but (Counsel to President Nixon from 1969 to 1973) stated that the military was called up to
protect the administration from the angry students, he recalled that "The was in the basement of the executive office building, so I went down just to talk to some of the guys and walk among
them, and they're lying on the floor leaning on their packs and their helmets and their cartridge belts and their rifles cocked and you re thinking, 'This can't be the United States of America
This is not the greatest free democracy in the world, This is a nation at war with itself."" Washington, D.C. [22] Camp David Charles Colson 82nd Airborne [22] Shortly after the shootings took
place, the conducted a national study that concluded the Kent State shooting was the single factor causing the only nationwide student strike in U.S. history over 4 million students protested
and over 900 American colleges and universities closed during the student strikes. The Kent State campus remained closed for six weeks. Urban Institute President Nixon and his
administration's public reaction to the shootings was perceived by many in the anti-war movement as callous. Then said the president was "pretending indifference." noted in his that "The
[Nixon] administration initially reacted to this event with wanton insensitivity. Nixon's press secretary, , whose statements were carefully programmed, referred to the deaths as a reminder that
'when dissent turns to violence, it invited tragedy. National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger Stanley Karnow Vietnam: A History Ron Ziegler Karnow further documented that on , at 4:15
a.m,, the president met about 30 student dissidents conducting a vigil at the whereupon Nixon "treated them to a clumsy and condescending monologue, which he made public in an awkward
attempt to display his benevolence." Nixon had been trailed by White House Deputy for Domestic Affairs , who saw it differently than Karnow, saying, "I thought it was a very significant and
major effort to reach out." In any regard, neither side could convince the other and after meeting with the students Nixon expressed that those in the anti-war movement were the pawns of
foreign communists. After the student protests, Nixon asked to consider the , which would have used illegal procedures to gather information on the leaders of the anti-war movement. Only the
resistance of stopped the plan. May 9 1970 Lincoln Memorial Egil Krogh [22] [22] H. R. Haldeman Huston Plan J. Edgar Hoover [22] Ten days after the Kent State shootings, on , at the under
similar circumstances, but that event did not arouse the same nationwide attention as the Kent State shootings. May 14 two students were killed by police historically black Jackson State
University [24] There was wide discussion as to whether or not these were legally justified shootings of American citizens, and whether or not the protests or the decisions to ban them were
constitutional. These debates served to further galvanize uncommitted opinion by the terms of the discourse. The term TM" was applied to the shootings by some individuals and media sources,
as it had been used for the of 1770, in which five were killed and several more wounded. massacre Boston Massacre [2] [3] [4] On , , President Nixon established the President's Commission
on Campus Unrest, known as the , which he charged to study the dissent, disorder, and violence breaking out on college and university campuses across the nation. The Commission's
establishment was a consequence of the killings of protesting students at Kent State and Jackson State. The Commission issued its findings in a September 1970 report that concluded that the
Ohio National Guard shootings on , were unjustified. The report said: June 13 1970 Scranton Commission [25] May 4 1970 Even if the guardsmen faced danger, it was not a danger that called
for lethal force. The 61 shots by 28 guardsmen certainly cannot be justified. Apparently, no order to fire was given, and there was inadequate fire control discipline on Blanket Hill. The Kent
State tragedy must mark the last time that, as a matter of course, loaded rifles are issued to guardsmen confronting student demonstrators. In September 1970, twenty-four students and one
faculty member were indicted on charges connected with the demonstration or the ROTC building fire three days before. The individuals, who had been identified from photographs, became
known as the "Kent 25." Five cases, all related to the burning of the ROTC building, went to trial; one non-student defendant was convicted on one charge and two other non-students pleaded
guilty. One other defendant was acquitted, and charges were dismissed against the last. In December 1971, all charges against the remaining twenty were dismissed for lack of evidence. May 4
[26] [27] [] edit Legal action against the guardsmen Eight of the guardsmen were indicted by a grand jury. The guardsmen claimed to have fired in self-defense, which was generally accepted
by the criminal justice system. In 1974 U.S. District Judge Frank Battisti dismissed charges against all eight on the basis that the prosecution's case was too weak to warrant a trial. [14] In
May 2007, Alan Canfora, one of the injured protestors, demanded that the case be reopened, having found an in a government archive allegedly recording an order to fire ("Right here! Get Set!
Point! Fire!") just before the 13 second volley of shots. audiotape Yale University [17] Canfora has been on a crusade since discovering the tape, hoping to get authorities to reopen the case
and use new technology to perform voice analysis. Larry Shafer, a guardsman who said he fired during the shootings and was one of those charged told the Kent-Ravenna Record Courier
newspaper in May 2007:" I never heard any command to fire. That's all I can say on that," Shafer, a Ravenna city councilman and former fire chief, told the newspaper. "That's not to say there
may not have been, but with all the racket and noise, I don't know how anyone could have heard anything that day." Shafer also went on to say that "point" would not have been part of a
proper command. [] edit Long-term effects The years following the shootings (1970 to 1979) were filled with lawsuits filed by families of the victims against the State of Ohio, in hopes of
placing blame on Governor Rhodes and the Ohio National Guard. Trials were held on both the federal and state level but all ended in acquittals or were dismissed. There was one civil trial for
wrongful death and injury brought by the victims and their families against Governor Rhodes and the National Guardsmen that was originally dismissed but eventually the dismissal was
overturned due to the judge excluding evidence. The students! families were awarded approximately $63,000 per victim and the defendants agreed to state for the record that they regretted
their actions. [27] In the proceeding years, many in the anti-war movement have referred to the shootings as "murders", although no criminal convictions were obtained against any National
Guardsman. Journalist wrote IF, Stone To those who think murder is too strong a word, one may recall that even three days after the Kent State shootings used the word in an interview on
the show in Los Angeles. Agnew admitted in response to a question that what happened at Kent State was murder, 'but not first degree! since there was as Agnew explained from his own
training as a lawyer "no premeditation but simply an over-response in the heat of anger that results in a killing; it's a murder. It's not premeditated and it certainly can't be condoned. Agnew
David Frost [28] The Kent State incident forced the National Guard to re-examine its methods of crowd control. The only equipment the Guardsmen had to disperse demonstrators that day
were rifles loaded with ammunition, , and . In the years that followed, the U.S. Army began developing of dispersing demonstrators (such as ) and changed its crowd control and riot tactics to
attempt to avoid casualties amongst the demonstrators. Many of the crowd control changes brought on by the Kent State events are used today by police and military forces in the United
States when facing similar situations, such as the and civil disorder during the aftermath of in 2005. M1 Garand .30-06 FM) bayonets CS gas grenades less lethal means rubber bullets 1992 Los
Angeles Riots Hurricane Katrina One outgrowth of the events was the Center for Peaceful Change, which was established at Kent State University in 1971 "as a living memorial to the events of
, " Now known as The Center for Applied Conflict Management (CACM), it developed one of the earliest undergraduate degree programs in the United States. The , an interdisciplinary program
dedicated to violence prevention, was established in 1998. May 4 1970 [29] conflict resolution Institute for the Study and Prevention of Violence According to recently released FBI reports, one
part-time student, , was already noted by student protesters as an informant for both campus police and the branch. Norman was present during the protests, taking photographs to identify
student leaders, while carrying a sidearm and wearing a gas mask.[] citation needed Terry Norman Akron FBI May 4[30] In 1970, FBI director responded to questions from then-Congressman
by denying that Norman had ever worked for the FBI, a statement Norman himself disputed. On , Indiana Senator sent a memo to then-governor of Ohio, , suggesting that Norman may have
fired the first shot, based on testimony he received from Guardsmen who claimed that a gunshot fired from the vicinity of the protesters instigated the Guard to open fire on the students. J.
Edgar Hoover John Ashbrook [31] 13 August 1973 Birch Bayh John 3. Gilligan [32] Throughout the almost 40 years since the shootings, debate has continued on the events of , . May 41970
[33] [34] Two of the survivors have died: James Russell on June 23, 2007, and Robert Stamps in June 2008. [35] [36] [] edit Memorials at Kent State Each from 1971 to 1975 the Kent State
University administration sponsored an official commemoration of the events. Upon the university's announcement in 1976 that it would no longer sponsor such commemorations, the May 4
Task Force, a group made up of students and community members, was formed for this purpose. The group has organized a commemoration on the university's campus each year since 1976;
events generally include a silent march around the campus, a candlelight vigil, a ringing of the victory bell in memory of those killed and injured, speakers (always including eyewitnesses and
family members), and music. May 4 In 1990, twenty years after the shootings, a memorial commemorating the events of May 4 was dedicated on the campus on a 2.5 acre (10,000 m ) site
overlooking the University's Commons where the student protest took place. Even the construction of the monument became controversial and in the end, only 7% of the design was
constructed. The memorial itself does not contain the names of those killed or wounded in the shooting; under pressure, the university agreed to install a plaque near it with the names. [37]
[38] [39] In 1999, at the urging of relatives of the four students killed in 1970, the university constructed an individual memorial for each of the students in the parking lot between Taylor and
Prentice halls. Each of the four memorials is located on the exact spot where the student fell, mortally wounded. They are surrounded by a raised rectangle of concrete featuring six lightposts
approximately four feet high, with the student's name engraved on a triangular marble plaque in one corner. [40] 1978 cast-from-life bronze sculpture, was commissioned for the Kent State
campus by a private fund for public art, but was refused by the university administration who deemed its (the biblical Abraham poised to sacrifice his son Isaac) too controversial. The sculpture
was accepted in 1979 by , and currently resides there between the university chapel and library. George Segal's In Memory of May 4, 1970, Kent State: Abraham and Isaac [41] subject matter
Princeton University [42] An earlier work of , , was produced on the Kent State campus by in January 1970. Shortly after the events, an inscription was added that recontextualized the work in
such a way that it came to be associated by some with the event. land art Partially Buried Woodshed [43] Robert Smithson [44] In 2004, a simple stone memorial was erected at Plainview-Old
Bethpage John F. Kennedy High School in , which had attended. Plainview, New York Jeffrey Miller On May 3, 2007, just prior to the yearly commemoration, an Ohio Historical Society marker
was dedicated by KSU president . It is located between Taylor Hall and Prentice Hall between the parking lot and the 1990 memorial. Lester Lefton [45] Also in 2007, a memorial service was
held at Kent State in honor of James Russell, one of the wounded, who died in 2007 of a heart attack. [46] In 2008, Kent State University announced plans to construct a May 4 Visitors Center
in a room in Taylor Hall. [47] [] edit Artistic tributes This TM section . Please remove insignificant entries, and . In popular culture may contain too many minor or trivial references reorganize
this content (February 2009) [] edit Music The best known popular culture response to the deaths at Kent State was the "", written by for . The song was written, recorded, and preliminary
pressings (acetates) were rushed to major radio stations, although the group already had a hit song, "", on the charts at the time. Within two-and-a-half weeks of the Kent State shootings,
"Ohio" was receiving national airplay. , , and visited the Kent State campus for the first time on , , where they performed the song for the May 4 Task Force's 27th annual commemoration. The
B-Side of the single release was Stephen Stills" anti-Vietnam war anthem "Find the Cost of Freedom". protest song Ohio Neil Young Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young Teach Your Children Crosby Stills
Nash May 4 1997 There are a number of lesser known musical tributes, including the following: ' 1970 song "Hey Sandy" was addressed to . Harvey Andrews [48] Sandra Scheuer lyrics and
wrote , recorded by Atkin on his 1971 album of the same name, about the shootings, relating them to a series of events and images from 20th-century American history. Pete Atkin Clive James
"Driving Through Mythical America" released "" in 1971 on wrote new lyrics for Riot in Cell Block Number Nine. The Beach Boys Student Demonstration Time [50] . Surf's Up Mike Love Leiber &
Stoller s wrote a song called Where Was Jesus in Ohio in May or June 1970. The unreleased and uncirculating song is reported to be the artist's emotionally charged response to the Kent State
shootings. Bruce Springsteen [51] has said that the lyrics of "Long Distance Runaround (on the album by , also released in 1971) are also in part about the shootings, particularly the line "hot
colour melting the anger to stone." Jon Anderson Fragile Yes [52] In 1970-71 , a Kent State University music professor who was on campus when the shootings occurred, composed , a full
length , in response to his experience. The work was first performed on the Kent State campus on , and was revived for the 25th commemoration of the events in 1995. Halim El-Dabh Opera
Flies opera May 8 1971 In 1971, the composer and pianist (who was a Kent State University graduate student at the time of the shootings), composed , an avant-garde work for inspired by the
same event. First performed in May 1971 for the university's first commemoration, it was released on LP in 1973 and was performed again by the Kent State University Jazz Ensemble in 2000
for the 30th commemoration. Bill Dobbins The Balcony jazz band 's 1971 is dedicated to the slain students at Kent State University and Jackson State University; the work was premiered in on
, and released on LP in 1972. Dave Brubeck cantata Truth Is Fallen Midland, Michigan May 1 1971 [53] The dedicated their 1973 album to Tom Miller of the Kent State 25. Tom Miller was a
member of the band who had been featured in magazine as part of the Kent State protests and lost his life the next year in an automobile accident. All Saved Freak Band My Poor Generation
Life 's It Could Have Been Me, her personal response to the shootings, was released on (1974). Holly Near A Live Album 's song "" is presumably a meditation on the Kent State shootings, the
title a reference to the Ohio governor who ordered the National Guard to confront protesters. The song was released on the LP in 1986, but is believed by some to have been recorded shortly
after the shootings. Jandek Governor Rhodes Telegraph Melts [] citation needed The industrial band 's 1989 song "", which appears on the albums refers to the event (The song is also on the
live Skinny Puppy Tin Omen Rabies .) Doomsday: Back and Forth Series 5: Live in Dresden The band 's song , which was the theme song to the series , may have referenced the shootings and
(being the titular "Sandy" of the song), although the actual meaning of the song is in debate. Polaris Hey Sandy Nickelodeon The Adventures of Pete & Pete Sandra Scheuer 2000 song
"O.D.H.G.A.B.F.E." references Kent State, together with the , the , the and the . Lamb of God's Auschwitz concentration camp Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 1968 Democratic National
Convention Waco siege A commemorative 2-CD compilation featuring music and interviews was released by the May 4 Task Force in May 2005, in commemoration of the 35th anniversary of
the shootings. [54] , who briefly attended Kent State, has said that he wrote "Turn to Stone" in response to the shootings. He also mentions the event in the song "Decades" (1992). Joe
Walsh [] citation needed -based band mentions this event in their song "Radical" recorded live for their album "Death Trip Delivery". Lodi, New Jersey horror punk Mourning Noise One of the
students who participated in the protest was , future leader of , who was a sophomore at the time. Chrissie Hynde The Pretenders [55] and_, founding members of , also attended Kent State at
the time of the shootings. Casale was reportedly "standing about 15 feet (4.6 m) away" from Allison Krause when she was shot, and was friends with her and another one of the students who
was killed. The shootings were the transformative moment for the band, which became less of a pure joke and more a vehicle for social critique (albeit with a bent). Mark Mothersbaugh Gerald
Casale Devo blackly humorous [56] references the Kent State shootings in his song Slow Down Gandhi. Sage Francis references the Kent State shootings in the song "Slaughterama saying
"Good thing I was such an expert shot with the National Guard back at Kent State, I bagged four that day" Gwar [] edit Prose 's 1971 story collection is dedicated to the four students who
were killed. Harlan Ellison Alone Against Tomorrow 's 1994 novel, mentions how one character hates President due in part to the students of Kent State. Lesley Choyce The Republic of Nothing
Richard Nixon The incident is mentioned in 's 1975 poem Allen Ginsberg Hadda be Playin on a Jukebox The poem "Bullets and Flowers" by is dedicated to Allison Krause. Krause had
participated in the previous days protest during which she reportedly put a flower in the barrel of a Guardsman s rifle, as had been done at a war protest at in October 1967, and reportedly
saying, "Flowers are better than bullets." Yevgeny Yevtushenko [57] [57] the Pentagon 's poem "The Commons" is about the shootings. Makuck, a 1971 graduate of Kent State, was present on
the Commons during the incident. Peter Makuck [] edit Plays 1977 - by J. Gregory Payne. First performed in 1976. Told from the perspective of Bill Schoeder's mother, Florence, this play has
been performed at over 150 college campuses in the U.S. and Europe in tours in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s; it was last performed at Emerson College in 2007. It is also the basis of NBC's
award-winning 1981 docudrama . Kent State: A Requiem Kent State 1995 - by Sandra Periman, Kent, Franklin Mills Press, first presented in Chicago , (Director: Jenifer (Gwenne)
Weber)Nightwalking. Voices From Kent State April 20 1995 [] edit Multimedia In her 1996 multimedia work , visual artist explores the history of the shootings within a wider historical and
cultural context. Partially Buried Ren e Green [] edit Documentary 1970 - (director ) - documentary filmed in Kent, Ohio directly following the shootings by a Kent State University

filmmaker. Confrontation at Kent State Richard Myers 1971 - (director Richard Myers) - a tribute toAllison Allison Krause 1979 - (director Michael Blackwood) - documentary about American
sculptor ; Segal discusses and is shown creating his bronze sculpture , which was originally intended as a memorial for the Kent State University campus.George Segal George Segal Abraham
and Isaac 2000 - (director Chris Triffo) - documentary featuring interviews with injured students, eyewitnesses, guardsmen, and relatives of students killed at Kent State.Kent State: The Day
the War Came Home 2007 - ("4 dead in Ohio: an American trauma") (directors Klaus Bredenbrock and Pagonis Pagonakis) - documentary featuring interviews with injured students,
eyewitnesses and a German journalist who was a U.S. correspondent.4 Tote in Ohio: Ein Amerikanisches Trauma [] edit Drama 1970 - , a television program starting , aired a two-part episode
titled "A Continual Roar of Musketry" which was based on a Kent State-like shooting. Holbrook's Senator character is conducting an investigation into the incident. The Bold Ones: The Senator
Hal Holbrook 1974 - : The climactic scene of this film depicts National Guardsmen lethally firing on unarmed students, and the credits specifically mention Kent State and other student
shootings The Trial of Billy Jack 1981 - (director James Goldstone) - televisionKent State docudrama 2002 - (director Jay Craven)The Year That Trembled