Registration Information It's required Before you can get on the road with your motor vehicle, motorcycle, tractor truck, trailer or semitrailer, (a href="/exec/link.asp?11">46.2-600) you're
required to title and register it at one of our (CSCs) or a DMV Select office. customer service centers You will need additional information to title and register a vehicle if you are a or . new
Virginia resident lease your vehicle What You Need to Bring with You Your vehicle must be in Virginia prior to registration. titled Once titled, complete an Application for Registration and
present: (VSA 14) The completed Application for Registration VSA14. Your certificate if your vehicle is garaged in the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, or Stafford, or in
the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, or Manassas Park. Motorcycles are not required to have an emissions inspection. When you have your vehicle's emissions system
inspected, the emissions inspection station will electronically update your DMV vehicle record with the test results immediately. When registering your vehicle, DMV will not ask you for
emissions information unless your vehicle failed the test or this information has not been received from the inspection station. emissions Note: To purchase license plates or decals, you must
certify that the vehicle is covered by the minimum insurance requirements or pay the . Your insurance carrier must be authorized to conduct business in Virginia. Virginia requires the following
minimum coverage: uninsured motor vehicle fee Bodily injury/death of one person $25,000 Bodily injury/death of two or more persons $50,000 Property damage $20,000 If liability
insurance coverage on a vehicle terminates or cancels during the registration period, either reinsure the vehicle, pay the uninsured motor vehicle fee or to DMV.Note: surrender the license
plates Fees Your is determined by the empty weight or gross weight of your vehicle, the type of license plate you purchase and if you register for one or two years. If you register your vehicle
for two years, you will receive a $2 discount. For convenience and fun, register your vehicle for two years and purchase one of our . Two-year registration is not available if your vehicle has a
gross weight of 55,000 pounds or more, is registered under the Intemational Registration Plan, or if you have paid the uninsured motor vehicle fee. registration fee special plates Your License
Plates DMV will issue you two license plates, decals showing the expiration date and a registration card. Place the decals on the plates. Place the plates on the front and rear of your vehicle so
that they are securely fastened and clearly visible. If your vehicle is a motorcycle, tractor truck, semitrailer or trailer, DMV will issue you one license plate for the vehicle. Its illegal to mount
colored glass, plastic, or any other type of covering on your license plates that alters or obscures the letters, numbers, decals or the state where the vehicle is registered and when the
registration expires. (a href="http://leg1.state.va.us/cgi-bin/legp504.exe?000+cod+46.2-716">46.2-716) Keep the registration card with you whenever you operate the vehicle. Registration
Renewal After your first registration, DMV will mail your renewal notice prior to the expiration date of your registration. You can renew your registration by , or renew or at any or . telephone
mail online DMV Select customer service center A new Virginia law, effective July 1, 2008, encourages customers to save money and time by renewing vehicle registrations (decals) online, by
telephone, through the mail or a DMV Select. If you renew in person at a customer service center, you'll pay an additional $5 fee for each vehicle registration renewal transaction. Here are
your service options: . Renew online at , receive a $1 discount, avoid the $5 fee.Internet www.dmvNOW.com . Avoid the $5 fee by mailing in the vehicle renewal notice. Most customers
receive their vehicle registration materials within five days, but U.S. mail delivery times vary. Please allow 15 days to receive your decals before contacting DMV.Mail_ . Renew by using the DMV
automated service (1-888-337-4782) to avoid the $5 fee.Telephone . Visit one of the 50 DMV Select offices in Virginia to avoid the $5 fee. Visit for a list of DMV Select locations.DMV Select
www.dmvNOW.com . Customers who renew their vehicle registrations in a CSC beginning July 1, 2008 will pay an additional $5.Customer Service Centers The fee will not apply if your
registration renewal is conducted with another transaction for you, and the second transaction cannot be completed online, by mail, by telephone or at a DMV Select location. Only a few
transactions must be completed at a CSC, such as an application for an original driver's license. If you renew vehicle registration for two years, you receive a $2 discount. The discounts for
Intemet and two-year renewals are not prorated and not refundable if the registration is canceled before it expires. If you own a vehicle registered in Virginia and are serving, or have served,
outside of the United States on active duty military service, the Code of Virginia, , grants you a 90-day grace period, from the date you return to the United States, in which to renew your
current registration. The grace period applies to qualifying vehicles only. To be eligible for the grace period, the vehicle must: 6.2-221.4 Be owned or leased by you while you were serving
outside of the United States in the armed services of the United States; Have had valid registration issued by DMV at the time you began service in the armed forces outside of the United
States; Be properly insured; Display the latest license plates and decals issued by DMV for the vehicle; AND Be operated only by you, or another person who qualifies for the grace period,
while possessing: Orders or other military documentation demonstrating that you, or they, are entitled to the grace period; AND The latest registration card issued by DMV for the vehicle. If
possible, you may renew your qualifying vehicle registration prior to returning to Virginia. You do not have to wait until you are in the grace period to renew. Local Vehicle Registration Program
DMV also collects the local vehicle registration fee for localities that participate in the . Local Vehicle Registration Program State Agencies: Refer to for additional information. state-owned
vehicles | | | P.O. Box 27412 Richmond, VA 23269