Carpal Tunnel is Not the Only Cause of Forearm Pain Wednesday, November 26, 2008 Dealing with forearm pain? This is a pain that occurs in the forearm area and it can be caused by a
variety of different problems. Many times it is caused by carpal tunnel syndrome. However, if you are dealing with pain in your forearm, you need to understand that carpal tunnel syndrome is
not always the problem. There are many other causes of forearm pain that you should be aware of. Here is a look at some of the problems, other than carpal tunnel syndrome, that can be
causing the pain you have in your forearm. Injury to the Forearm One cause of pain in the forearm area can be an injury to the forearm. Before you decide you are only dealing with some
carpal tunnel pain, you will want to take a few minutes to think. Have you injured the forearm in any way? Did you take a fall or perhaps did you accidentally hit the forearm on something?
Perhaps you even pulled a muscle or tendon. These are common problems that can occur that cause this type of pain. Peripheral Neuropathy Another common problem that can be the cause
of pain in the forearm is peripheral neuropathy. This is a problem that occurs when there is damage to nerves that are peripheral. Often this problem is caused by diabetes and can occur to the
feet, hands, and arms. So, it could be a problem that is causing the pain in your forearm. Tendonitis Tendonitis is another problem that often causes pain in the forearm. This basically is a
problem that occurs when the tendons actually get inflamed. It can be a result of injury or even using it too much. It can cause a lot of pain, including pain in the forearm if the tendons in the
area are hurt or overused. Left Arm - Possible Heart Attack Last of all, if you are dealing with forearm pain in your left arm, this could be potentially serious. Sometimes when people are going
through a heart attack, they end up having pain in their left arm, which can include the forearm area. If you are having chest pain along with this forearm pain or you have pain through the
entire arm and only on the one side, you should seek medical attention as soon as possible. So, as you can see, pain in the forearm is not always a sign of dealing with carpal tunnel syndrome.
There are other very serious problems that can cause similar pain. For this reason, going to your doctor and letting him know about the pain can be very important to receive the right
treatment.