A Working Dog Dog's Telegram " There was a guy who took his dog into a bar. Upon seeing the dog, the bartender tells the owner that dogs were not allowed into the bar. "Oh, this dog is
special. This dog can talk," t he owner said, "Really," the bartender replied, "Sure it can 'speak,' like almost any dog. "No," the owner said, "This dog can actually talk like a normal human."
The bartender couldn't believe this for one second. He then decided to make a bet with the owner. "I tell you what, I'll give you free drinks for the evening if that dog can do what you're
saying." The owner tums to the dog and asks, "Who was the greatest baseball player of all time?" The dog answers, "Roof!" Upon hearing this, the bartender picks up the owner and the dog
and throws them out the door. While sitting on the sidewalk, the dog turns to the owner quite confused, "What? Ty Cobb?!?"A Talking Dog lease help me complete this story. I heard it on public
radio in 2004, don't remember date or time. jb13) Some background: Yudishtra was the eldest of the 5 Pandava brothers, and, despite his mortal lineage, was the son of Dharma, god of
justice. In the normal course of things, Yudishtra would have become king. However, he was cheated out of his succession, and this unleashed a series of events which culminated in the great
war of the Mahabharatha. Krishna (the god Vishnu in a human avatar) took the side of the Pandavas and of justice. It was 36 years after the great war. The tribe of the Yadavs, from the midst
of whom Krishna had walked out to bestride the world, had fallen into decadence. In one last mad drunken skirmish, all men from the tribe, but for Krishna, his brother Balaram, and a friend
perished. The curse that had foretold their end had come true. Krishna and his two brethren had no desire left to live, Balaram chose to die of his own will, as befitted a god. But Krishna, who
had taken human form, was determined to play his part till the end. Having made preparations for the care of the women, the children, and the elderly, he turned his attention to the vexing
question of how he could die like a mortal. As he slept in the forest, a hunter mistook the sleeping form for an animal, and unleashed one arrow, which entered through his foot and pierced the
length of his body. Grateful for the release, Krishna died. (By the way, the foot was Krishna's only vulnerable part, and I believe that this version predates the myth of Achilles.) The last rites for
the heroes were performed by Arjun, the heroic archer and third Pandava brother. Without Krishna and the menfolk, Dwarka was dead. The sea took what was left, submerging the beautiful
buildings where the Yadavs had lived. The remaining citizens were escorted out of the city by Arjun. Yet, when the band was set upon by robbers, Arjun, weakened by grief, failed to protect
them. The death of Krishna drove the Pandavas to grief. (Having fought an internecine war, the fruits had always been Pyrthic, and the shadow of grief had never really left them.) Weary of the
world, Yudishtra abdicated the throne in favour of a great-nephew. Then the five brothers and the queen Draupadi embarked on a pilgrimage, on what they knew was the final journey. As they
ascended towards the Himalayas, a dog attached itself to the procession. The small band pressed on, but the overt fatigue and the hidden load of their respective sins began to take their toll
One by one, the queen Draupadi, the twins Sahadev and Nakul, Arjun the archer, and mighty Bheem, all perished. Yudishtra alone, who had lived a life of almost unblemished righteousness,
continued, accompanied by the dog. Numb with grief and loneliness, yet impelled by destiny, Yudishtra pressed on. Suddenly, a glow of light appeared alongside, revealing Indra in his golden
chariot. Indra descended from the chariot, and invited Yudishtra to board it, since it would carry him straight to heaven. Yudishtra was reluctant at first, insisting that his brothers and wife must
also be present. However, on Indra's insistence that he would meet them in heaven, he acquiesced. Yet, as he prepared to board with the dog, Indra laughed and told him that there was no
place in heaven for a dog. Yudishtra shook his head, and expressed his inability to comply. The dog, he explained, had shared all his troubles. It had demonstrated its devotion. All Yudishtra's,
deeds which had earned him a place in heaven would be negated if he failed in his duty towards the dog. Sadly, but firmly, Yudishtra tumed away. If this was the price heaven demanded, he
was not willing to pay it. As he turned away, the dog began to change form. The god of justice, Dharma, Yudishtra's celestial father, stood before him. all along, it was Dharma who had kept
pace with his son, all the way till the final test was played out with Indra. Yudishtra then ascended Indra's great chariot and left for heaven. (He didn't get there straight off, though. There were
other trials, but that is another story...Personally, I have always found the image of Yudishtra, bereft, lonely, and at the end of his life, still turning away for the sake of the dog especially
poignant. Hope you enjoyed it.) Sridhar 14) From Clellon Baeder If a dog were your teacher, You would learn stuff like...... When loved ones come home, always run to greet them. Never pass
up the opportunity to go for a joyride. Allow the experience of fresh air and the wind in your face to be pure ecstasy. When it's in your best interest, practice obedience. Let others know when
they've invaded your territory. Take naps and stretch before rising. Run, romp, and play daily. Thrive on attention and let people get close and touch you. Avoid biting when a simple grow!
will do. On warm days, stop to lay on your back on the grass. _ On hot days, drink lots of water and lay under a shady tree. When you're happy, dance around and wag your entire
body. No matter how often you're scolded, don't buy into the guilt thing and pout...run right back and make friends. Delight in the simple joy of along walk. Eat with gusto and
enthusiasm. Stop when you have had enough. Be loyal. Never pretend to be something you're not. __If what you want lies buried, dig until you find it. And MOST OF ALL... When someone
is having a bad day, be silent, sit close by and nuzzle them gently. 15) Dogs in Israel are polite, they don't say, they ask HOW in Hebrew. Dvora Shurman 16) From Batsy Bybell How do we
know that puppies love their dads? They always lick their paws. What did the dog say to the flea? Don't bug me. What do you get if you cross a mutt with a poodle? A muddle. What happened
to the dog who ate an onion? His bark was MUCH worse than his bite. What would you get if you crossed a hunting dog and a telephone? A golden receiver. Why did the dog feel so frisky? He
had a new leash on life. What would you say if your puppy ran away? Doggone! What kind of dogs would Count Dracula buy at a petstore? Bloodhounds. What would you get if you crossed a
goldfish and a puppy? A guppy. What does a mom dog say when she wants to her little one to quiet down? Hush, puppies! 17) There is a chapter about the Gelert legend, its predecessors and
analogues in Sabine Baring-Gould's "Curious Myths of the Middle Ages" - this also looks at the Wandering Jew, William Tell, the Pied Piper of Hameln, Pope Joan ... It's a wonderful book to
browse in.The Welsh story is that Llywelyn Fawr (the Great) went out hunting one day, leaving his favourite hound, Gelert, behind to look after his baby son (or the dog did not come when
called). When he retumed, he was created by the hound, covered in blood and with a bloody mouth, and when he rushed into the tower he saw the cradle overturned, the bedclothes covered in
blood and no sign of his child. He immediately assumed that the dog had gone mad and attacked devoured the boy, and drawing his sword stabbed him to death. Then he heard a weak cry
from undemeath the cradle and lifting it and the clothes found his son unharmed and the body of a huge wolf, dead with its throat torn out; obviously killed by Gelert. Full of remorse, he
erected a monument to the faithful dog, and the location is still called Beddgelert (the Grave of Gelert), and much visited by tourists. But the story was not associated with the place until 1793,
by a local innkeeper, and was then popularised by a ballad. The dog was said to be a gift from Llywelyn's father-in-law King John (he who lost his treasure in the Wash), named Kill-hart, and
therefore presumably English. At least Llywelyn's dog was faithful - his wife, Joan/Siwan, was imprisoned for adultery and her lover, a Norman knight, executed - Saunders Lewis wrote a play
on this.The story has been traced back to an Indian version (I hesitate to say original of course), where an ichneumon (mongoose) kills a snake, in (Tim's favourite) the , and this, or its
successors, was the source for Muslim and Jewish versions, themselves the source for mediaeval Latin monkish tales in the Seven Sages and the Gesta Romanorum; there is a Welsh version of
the former in the Red Book of Hergest (which also contains one version of the Mabinogion). (Curiously enough, these Latin tales seem be almost entirely based on Classical and Oriental
sources, never the vernacular folklore, although clerics like Gerald of Wales recorded plenty of the latter) In the opposite direction, the Mongolian Uligerun (a translation of the Tibetan
Dsanglun) apparently includes a version of this story, received via Buddhist missionaries, with a polecat. But things may not be so simple; there is a Greek version, recorded in Pausanius
(C2AD), with a snake protecting a baby from a wolf at Ophiteia (Snake Town), so it may have been current orally in the West before the Eastern versions came in, and I'm not one of those who
think stories only migrated from the East (or from the Celts). Anyway, there is a more general motif of a man being rendered a service by a dumb animal friend, which he misunderstand and
hence kills: In a Latin poem " (The Gnat) attributed to Virgil, a countryman is stung by a gnat, which he swats before seeing the snake the gnat was warning him about. S. B-G quotes a tale
very similar to your eagle one, but with a falcon, from the Anvar-i-Suhaili (I don't know this) ; this is said to occur, with variations in Aesop (anyone know where?), Aelian and Apthonius. In an
Egyptian story, a (2dumb) slave smashes a plot of herbs which a cook has prepared, and the irate cook thrashes him within an inch of his life; when he retums exhausted from this labour to
examine the broken pot he discovers a poisonous snake among the herbs. hwyl/cheers. Philip Anderson 18) My favorite is "" also called "" from the great Indian epic the . It is such an old story
and so powerful. I know it comes in some modem versions too, but I like the ancient one. Takes a little practice to learn how to pronounce the names but it is worth it. Here is the URL that will
lead you directly to the story. Janet 19) From Margaret: There is a fairytale (Andersen, I think) about a soldier who goes down into a hollow tree and finds 3 dogs with large eyes guarding
treasure. Anyone have more details? A dog with eyes as big as teacups! A dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels! A dog with eyes like towers! (Although, I remembered it as a dog with eyes as,
big as a saucer, another with eyes as big as a dinner plate, and the third with eyes as big as a platter.) It is the story, "TM which can be found at: 20) From Mountain Hermit: I had many requests
on and off the list for this story so I finally sat down and tried to write it. This is just a first draft and I know can use much polishing, but it is a true story I can never tell enough. Feel free to
use it in your travels. They were on their way from India to Canada, a young family immigrating to a new home, and hopefully a better life. They got off the plane in England for a brief stopover
and to visit relatives. All of them but one got back on the plane, the smallest one. She remained behind, in a hospital bed, two years old and violently separated from everything and everyone
she knew by polio. The family had followed all of the immigration guidelines and got all their vaccinations before leaving India. When their daughter got sick on the plane they thought it was
just a reaction to the shots. When they got the small child to the hospital, a small rigid body was bundled carefully in the mother's arms where only a short time earlier the heavy softness of a
small child was cuddled. It was here they discovered the polio, a disease that had been almost eradicated many years earlier. It was 1975, and the polio vaccine was suppose to prevent this
from happening. What had gone wrong? The rest of the family had to continue their journey to Canada to meet the terms of their immigration. They left their young daughter behind. It was
several months before the mother could return and pick up her daughter and bring her to Canada with the rest of the family. But this is not the story. Nor are the struggles the girl went through
as she grew up. There is a story in that, as there is a story in each person's challenges as they grow physically and mentally, whether they faced the challenges of a disability or not. No, this
story is about a dog. It is about a dog that came into the gir''s life twenty-five years after her first battle with polio. It is about a Saint Bernard that came into her life as a fifteen pound bundle
of energy and grew into a hundred and seventy-five pound bundle of love and an unsung hero of immeasurable proportions. It was at this time that the girl was beginning to feel the effects of
Post-Polio disease, loosing strengths and capabilities that as a child she struggled to regain after her bout with polio. Not content to just sit back and loose her independence, and having done
here research the girl found a dog trainer that would work with her, a dog breeder that would work with her, and adopted a puppy that would hopefully grow to be the service dog she needed to
help maintain her independence. This in itself was no small decision. She grew up in a culture that foundanimals dirty and animals in the house an absolute taboo, so there was much opposition
and absolutely no support from family. Anyone who knew about dogs advised against a Saint Bernard. "They are big, dumb animals," they all said and then proceeded to recommend almost
any other breed but a Saint. The girl had done her homework though. She knew her lifestyle and she knew what she needed so for what seemed like the first time in her life she went against
the grain. This was that dog's first work, bringing out a true independence when independence was at risk of being lost altogether. As the puppy grew, it traveled to work with the girl everyday,
and was at her side wherever she went. Went the strength in the girl's arms diminished to the point that she had difficulty pushing her wheelchair that puppy, now a beautiful mahogany and
white Saint Berard named Strauss, would pull her wherever she wanted to go. The girl discovered that Strauss could not only pull her where she wanted to go, but to places she had never
been able to go on her own. She discovered a world that had always been just out of her reach and in that world she discovered people that, were it not for Strauss, would have tried
desperately to pretend they did not notice the poor girl in the wheelchair. Strauss attracted the attention of young and old wherever he went and these people were often so busy noticing the
dog that they missed the wheelchair altogether and talked to the person holding the dog, not the person in the wheelchair. Yet another barrier knocked down by the unsung hero. When the girl
became to sick to work, Strauss never left her side. He was there when she got up in the moming. He was there when she went to sleep. He was there when she was in tears and pain, and he
was there when she was having a good day. Through it all Strauss remained staunch and steady like no man or woman could, Instinctively Strauss knew exactly what the girl needed
Sometimes that meant sitting for hours with his head rested gently in the girl's lap. Sometimes that meant nudging the girl with his big nose to motivate her to move. Sometimes it meant just
being nearby. When the gir! lifted herself from into her wheelchair, Strauss would stand as steady as a rock, bearing the girls entire weight when her arms gave out, and he never uttered a
complaint. When the girl fell to the floor, which happened more and more often, Strauss would make sure she was okay, then retrieve the phone for her before he would lie down on the floor
with her and wait for help to come. More than once when help came they found the girl sound asleep, her head snuggled into the Saint Bernard's soft side. When the girl ended up in the
hospital for an extended period, Strauss would be brought to the hospital to visit her. During his visits he would lift not only the girl's spirits, but the spirits of many patients and staff. The girl
loves to tell the story of walking outside the hospital with Strauss and being surprised when Strauss ignored her commands and left her side to sit in front of an older woman in a wheelchair
who was surrounded by family. The girl to the people as she reached for Straus's leash but they stopped her. The older woman was petting Strauss with a very shaky hand and whispering
something. This, according to the family members, was the first time since her stroke that the woman had moved or spoke on her own. These are only some of his accomplishments, for which
he could never be rewarded well enough. When Strauss passed away someone told the girl that dog's didn't go to heaven. The girl's response - "Then I hope they don't send me to heaven
when I go, I'd rather be with the dogs!" Strauss opened doors, physically and literally. Strauss knocked down barriers with his mere presence. Strauss lifted the heaviest of spirits with a grin
only a Saint Bernard can give. There will never be monuments or plaques dedicated to this dog. Most people will never hear his name or his story despite the hundred's of lives he has touched.
After all, he is only a dog. Only a dog! 21) One version is written down by Joan Chase Brown in (also tells about why we have tides, why girls's legs get cold, and why boys warm up their
backsides in front of a fire when they get a chance.) A VERY tellable story. 22) Here's the version I tell. 1) "Why Dogs Sniff Under Tails?" It's listed as "Iroquois," but I'm not sure of that. It tells,
of how wolf pups were brought to live with the Two-legged ones, but the Four-Legs were forbidden to dance of sing. I spend some time going over what Four Legs could do better than Two Legs
~ hearing, smelling, etc. (Children love to make contributions here.) One night the urge to do the forbidden made the dogs decided to have a dance, but they took off their tails because they
were making dust clouds as they sweep the ground. They also sang which, of course, gave them away. In their haste to get away, they just grabbed any old tail. ( I go into great detail and
have the audience contribute to how the Jack Russell received the Husky tail, etc. The more ridiculous the better.) So... that's why dogs are always sniffing each others tails, searching and
asking "Are you sure you have the right one? Isn't that my tail?" 23) A dog living in a village becomes absorbed chasing a butterfly/insect and finds itself lost in the jungle, where it shouldn t
be. the dog hears a lion approaching. when the lion is dose and about to harm the dog, the dog says something (i don t remember what) that causes the lion to leave. a monkey watching this
from a tree goes after the lion and tells the lion (don t remember what) how the dog tricked it. the lion tells the monkey to get on its back and they go back to the dog. when they get to the
dog, the dog says something (don t remember what) that causes the lion to doubt what the monkey told the lion, and the lion again doesn t harm the dog. P