It is a tradition with many Italian families to celebrate Christmas Eve with an elaborate fish banquet. Sometimes referred to as The Feast of the Seven Fishes, not everybody sticks to exactly
seven; some go up to 11 or 12, predominantly shellfish. Personally, since I am allergic to shellfish, I have a feast of one fish, Red Snapper Livornesa (actually, since it is Christmas Eve we
usually splurge and use Chilean Sea Bass rather than snapper). Italian Christmas Eve Dinner By Phil Torre A16 is an acclaimed restaurant in San Francisco, inspired by the food from the
Campania region in southern Italy. It is named after the highway that runs through Campania connecting Naples to Puglia. A16: Food and Wine, a cookbook by A16's executive chef and Wine
Director, Nate Applemen and Shelly Lindgren respectively, is an excellent guide to the wines and peasant food of Campania and nearby regions. Cookbook Review Find 100's of properties for
including and for investment opportunities in Italy. Italy Property Property In Calabria Property For Sale Puglia Are you looking for some quality for someone? are a great gift for anyone as well
as perfect for . Gift baskets also support gift giving and we have some great Italian themed baskets to choose from. Italian gifts Sending gift baskets Fathers Day gifts healthy Travel Rome
Hotels Venice Hotels Florence Hotels Car Rental Deals This recipe actually comes from my friend Michael who prides himself on his risotto skills. He feels the error that most people make when
cooking risotto is that they go overboard on the stirring and end up with a gummy blob. Risotto is supposed to be creamy with distinct grains of rice not a mushy mass of overcooked,
over-stirred starch. What makes risotto break down, as with all starchy foods, is the release of gluten from the rice as it is stirred. Michael prefers to just stir enough to keep it from burning on
the bottom. If you like you can add scallops, small clams or any other seafood to the risotto. Italian Recipes