Stay on top of the latest happenings by signing up to receive email news, announcements, etc... Email: Can't find what you are looking for? Type in a keyword and click search. Tour of St.
Joseph, Michigan Throughout the 1800's, people continued to move into the St. Joseph area. The first settlers arrived to the area and built their homes east of the river in 1834, The land they
had found soon developed into excellent farmland, In fact, beautiful countryside's still surround St. Joseph. Orchards full of apples, pears, peaches and cherries flow into vineyards of grapes,
fields of com, rows of strawberries and blueberries. It is the largest non-citrus fruit-growing region in the nation. Each spring, since 1906 the celebrates the beginning of the growing season.
Blossomtime Festival Ironically, in 1839 peach trees were introduced to the area and peach production became a major economic activity. It was in 1870 that St. Joseph finally acquired a rail
service through the Chicago and Michigan Lakeshore Railway. By 1872 it had developed to the extent that Berrien County could ship 140,000 bushels of peaches each year. You can still take the
train from Detroit or Chicago and arrive at the same train station in downtown St. Joseph. (For more information on times and fees, visit the web site.) Amtrak In 1880, Logan Drake
purchased 20-22 acres of sand dunes from the Native Americans. Later he joined up with Louis Wallace and formed the Silver Beach Amusement Company. A slide was built in the water for
children; a moving stairway "the people mover was installed on the bluff costing 1 cent to ride. Roller coasters, a carousel, outdoor roller skating rink and dance pavilion were added. Silver
Beach is still a community get-together for guests and residents. Currently a group of citizens are trying to bring back the "magic" of the Silver Beach Amusement Park, by purchasing the
original carousel, with the intent of making it a working exhibit in downtown St. Joseph. For more information, visit the .) Silver Beach Carousel Society's website Many people fondly
remember the days of the Shadowland Ballroom that was a part of the Amusement Park. Recently, Berrien County constructed the Shadowland Pavilion to honor the old Shadowland Ballroom
and provide a place on the beach for more entertainment and fun. During summer months visitors may hear a variety of concerts here. This past summer the performed during festivals and the
4th of July to sell out crowds. We're confident you'll not only be impressed with the talent, but the unique architecture as well