(may be normal) Platelet count Ristocetin cofactor test (the primary assay test used to diagnose von Willebrand disease) Von Willebrand factor level (level is reduced) This disease may also
alter the results of the following tests: Factor VIII level Von Willebrand factor multimers (parts of the von Willebrand factor protein molecule) Von Willebrand disease may be hard to diagnose.
Low Von Willebrand factor levels and bleeding do not always mean you have Von Willebrand disease. Treatment Return to top Medications such as desamino-8-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP)
can be given to raise the levels of von Willebrand factor, which will reduce the tendency toward bleeding. Some types of von Willebrand disease do not respond to DDAVP. Tests should be done
to determine a patient's specific type of von Willebrand disease, before trauma or surgery occurs. A trial of DDAVP can be done before surgery to test whether von Willebrand factor levels
increase. The drug Alphanate (antihemophilic factor) is approved to decrease bleeding in patients with the disease who must have surgery or any other invasive procedure. Blood plasma or
certain factor VIII preparations may also be used to decrease bleeding. Outlook (Prognosis) Return to top Women who have this condition generally do NOT have excessive bleeding during
childbirth. Although this disease is passed down through families, genetic counseling is only rarely recommended for those considering pregnancy. _ Possible Complications Return to top
Bleeding (hemorrhaging) may occur after surgeries or other invasive procedures. If you have von Willebrand disease, do not take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as
aspirin or ibuprofen, without talking to your health care provider. When to Contact a Medical Professional Return to top Call your health care provider if bleeding occurs without reason. If
you have von Willebrand disease and are scheduled for surgery or are in an accident, be sure you or your family notify the health care providers about your condition. Kumar V, Abbas AK,
Fausto N. . 7th ed. St. Louis, Mo: WB Saunders; 2005:654-655.Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease Noble J. . 3rd ed. St. Louis, Mo: Mosby; 2001:1047.Textbook of Primary Care
Medicine Marx. . Sth ed. St. Louis, Mo: Mosby; 2002:1693.RosenUs Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice Sadler JE. New concepts in von Willebrand disease.
2005;56:173-191.Annu Rev Med Update Date: 3/21/2008 Updated by: Stephen Grund, M.D. Ph.D., Chief of Hematology/Oncology and Director of the George Bray Cancer Center at New
Britain General Hospital, New Britain, CT. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided
herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any
and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright
1997-2009, A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.