: Satellite.info Satellite Internet Satellite Internet Service vs Traditional ISPs Satellite Internet Service vs Traditional ISPs Have you heard about satellite Internet service? Perhaps you are
wondering why anyone would want to have satellite Internet service. Well, let's look at the options. Most people using the Internet have one of three traditional options: Using a standard
modem - Modems haven't changed a lot since first introduced in PC's. With a built-in dial-up modem, customers attach the phone cable to the back of their PC, the phone line plugs into the
modem. The modem uses the phone line to connect to Intemet service providers. Dial-up modem speeds have increased, but have flattened out at 56K transfer rates - actually the data
transfer is about 48,000 bits per second exchange. Using phone DSL -- A DSL connection let's you use telephone service, without tying up your phone line. The transfer speed is much higher
than the older modems, 1.5 Mbps vs. 56 Kbps. It's easy to use a DSL service, provided that you have a phone company that provides DSL service (t's not available everywhere). You do not
have to have any rewiring done in your home, just plug the telephone adapter into your phone line and a DSL modem. Using Cable Modems - Some people choose to have their Internet and
television provided through the cable service. A single provides a cable signal to the consumer's television and Internet service. Unlike the phone service DSL, distance from the cable service
providers is not a factor in integrity of signal. However, as more users are added to a cable signal, the quality and speed degrades. coax cable Even though there are lots of modem options,
satellite Internet service is ideal for people that are in one of the following situations: Their telephone service provider does not provide DSL service and standard dial-up is to slow for their
needs; They live in a rural area that does not offer broadband access; They have satellite TV service and are looking to consolidate services to limit billing. In these cases Satellite Internet is
a viable option for customers and will offer them fast, easy access to the Internet with fast download speeds. Article