12/02/1981, SagittariusDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: Singer; actorProfession: A multitasking megastar, Spears was neither the best looking nor most talented of the crop of teen pop artists
unleashed on MTV in the late '90s. Yet she bested her competitors with her knack for staying the center of attention and changing her image as often as she changed her outfits. While her
catchy singles and sexy videos (which had a barely legal appeal) initially made her a household name, Spears quickly added acting to her resume as the star of the tepid 2002 coming-of-age
flick . Busy as she was, the bubbly blonde found the time to open a restaurant, launch a fragrance, write books (with assistance) and carry on a much-scrutinized love life: a long-term romance
with 'N Sync front man (and fellow costar) Justin Timberlake; rumored dalliances with Colin Farrell and Limp Bizkit's Fred Durst; an annulled, two-day Las Vegas marriage to a childhood friend
in 2004; and finally, her "real" marriage later that year to dancer and aspiring rap star Kevin "K-Fed" Federline (whose second child with actress Shar Jackson was born less than two months
before the nuptials). As the '00s wore on, Spears seemed more famous for her personal than her professional life, although she picked up her first Grammy for the song "Toxic" in 2004. But
with a little-watched 2005 reality show (), two babies, questionable parenting skills, a pending divorce and no showbiz projects on the horizon, Britney-mania seemed to be subsiding. In
February 2007, after months of nonstop, often pantyless partying, Spears seemed to completely lose her mind. Within one drama-filled week, she shaved her head, got two tattoos, and
checked in and out of rehab . It seemed her lifestyle had become completely "Toxic." CrossroadsMickey Mouse ClubBritney and Kevin: Chaotictwice Britney Spears Fast Facts: Auditioned in
1990 at age 8 for but was tuned down due to being too young.The Mickey Mouse Club Played a murderous child in the campy off-Broadway musical in 1991.Ruthless! Competed on in 1992
and won (but was defeated the second week).Star Search Appeared alongside Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera on after finally joining the cast in 1993.The Mickey Mouse Club
Guest-starred on in 1999 and the following year.Sabrina, the Teenage WitchThe Simpsons Shared a headline-making kiss with Madonna at the 2003 MTV Music Video Awards. Gave birth to her
second child in September, 2006. Filed for divorce from Kevin Federline in November, 2006. Britney Spears Relationships: