speedo 09-29-05, 07:54 PM I also have stress induced ocd. Most of the time it is not so bad for me. I did go into a loop on one occasion, but that was after the death of a loved one...etc. For
me, controlling anxiety helps keep the ocd in check... This includes managing environmental problems as well as sensory inputs, along with appropriate medication. I wish you and your child
well. Me :D We had our 1st counselling session today- more of an intake, really. She said we were taking positive steps and seems to think its stress induced ocd (since it is more prominent
during the school year) She seems to think that we would be possibly successful with therapy and some at home exercises. as I write this my son is now having another meltdown in the other
room with my husband. What set him off tonight is that he said good night to me (and did the bedtime ritual correctly) but he realized he did it without his socks! Okay I am back... I just
stepped out and by some good grace was able to calm him down. My husband has had it. He is ready to walk out of the house, been there myself. We just need to find some solution to calm
him before he gets to the meltdown point, because when we get there - there is no turning back. babyboy 09-29-05, 09:36PM Thank you, tonight went much better. I tried (as ridiculous as
it sounds) talking to him like he was 2 again, catered to him like when he was much younger, and that really helped- no tantrum, no meltdown, PLEASANT! Thank you all for your well wishes,
its nice to know we arent the only ones out there! Jaycee 09-29-05, 11:21 PM With new things happening in the household he may just need the reassurance that he's still a big part of your
life and that he can have you undivided attention. I'm glad to see that things went well and if talking to him like he was two again ( and still the center of your life) makes things easier..go for
it. It sounds like it helped with the ritualistic behavior which means he felt more secure in his world and his place in yours. babyboy 09-30-05, 06:01 PM we shall see tonight. wish me luck all!
And YES he is the biggest part of my life- I go out of my way to have mommy and me time, but then he gets too busy with his friends, video games or the computer! Jaycee 09-30-05, 06:50
PM I think that's every kid. Mine want my undivided attention for all of two minutes. Then they think of something they'd rather do. They still like to know that they can come back if they
want, babyboy 09-30-05, 10:13 PM I know, but suddenly almost overnight they suddenly do not need us, and we go from mommy to mom. Then we discover something like this- and I feel
like such a failure, I should have seen that it wasnt spiteful behavior. I know you are all going to tell me it isnt my fault because its chemical inbalance, but there are still the feelings of blame,
did 1 eat something wrong while I was pregnant? Is it because I missed that prenatal vitamin? Am I doing something wrong with raising him? Are these normal thoughts of parents with a child
with ocd? Andi 09-30-05, 10:58 PM These are normal thoughts for any parent that has a child that deals with any diagnosis. There are few days that I don't feel guilty for passing on
hereditary conditions or creating emotional scars. It breaks my heart to think that I'll be the discussion when and if they need therapy. The thing that I try to focus on is that there are some
issues that I understand and relate to and I can share my experiences. Anything outside of my knowledge I devour every bit of information I can and share it with them. All you can do is your
best and let your children know JUST how much you love them by doing everything you can to help them...which I feel you ARE doing. :) babyboy 10-01-05, 10:08 PM Thank you, I try my
best to do what is best for him, but sometimes you question yourself. Like you said- I dont wantto leave him with scars and be teh main topic at therapy! Sounds like knowledge is the key!
Jaycee 10-01-05, 10:32 PM I think it's pretty normal to feel guilty about any kind of disability your child has. I look at my kids especially my 5 year old that inherited every bad thing that
either my husband or I have... Migrains, ADHD, SID, Sleep disorder, allergies.. and think if I'd hadn't married someone with ADHD my kids would have had a better chance. Then I remember
that I wouldn't have MY kids. They would be totally different. A good friend of mine teasingly asked if I'd had Mountain Dew when I was pregnagnt with Caleb. I didn't although I did drink small
amounts of caffeine, but immediately I felt hugely guilty. She didn't day it to hurt, but it did. At some point you have to cut yourself some slack. You have to realize that you have the ability to
make his life easier by educating yourself and making the best decisions for him. The more knowledge you have, the easier it is to make good choices and the right parenting skills for him,
That's the best any of us can do as parents. So stop feeling guilty and be happy that you have him, Everytime I start to get really deep in guilt I look at a friend whose tried everything outside
of adopting overseas to have a child. It really helps me suck it up. charlie 10-01-05, 11:11 PM BB, I really hate to throw a monkey wrench in what seems to be working for your family and
I'm probably just putting my foot in my mouth. But just have to speak up and say 2 psychiatrists and 1 counselor all advised me NOT to join in our son's rituals. Just for instance I'll add that
his dad DOES follow-thru with his rituals-- saying goodbye takes at least 5 minutes, but I won't repeat certain phrases, etc until it feels right to him. I have given in to help him, say in public I
will touch him (hold hands or put arm around shoulder) to help him out of a walking ritual he gets stuck into. I have a friend who grew up in a household of everyone catering to her
OCD/hoarder brother and she swears it, the OCD controls the whole family. She got out of the house as soon as possible. She remembers though it started in small increments and her brother
was never taken to a professional until high school age and feels it was too late then. Honestly her family's whole day revolves around her now 25 year-old brothers rituals, from having
groceries delivered to the house, to trails in each room surrounded by STUFF, new boxes everywhere etc. I'm NOT saying you are doing anything wrong, at all. I would just like to relay the
advice I was given and plead with you to continue seeking help for your son. He's so young still so much of his actions/meltdowns can be chalked up to his age. But it wouldn't hurt to have
hubby also go along to get help with his reaction to your son's meltdowns. Breaks my heart to say that my son's dad is pretty much not trusted by our son mainly due to his reaction of loud
blustery verbal anger/frustration, don't know if he'll ever win the trust he lost this last year. Good ol dad really believed the school who preached tough love and your kid will get with the
program. Sorry rambling, I really FEEL for you cause we're living this from a parents viewpoint, too. I really like the posts you've received on this thread and Jaycee's advice especially about
making your son feel "more secure in his world and his place in yours" :foot: babyboy 10-02-05, 08:43 AM You now Charlie, I agree with that, I did try to NOT give into the rituals, and I have
read that it only makes matters worse. But at this point, I am so stressed and I do have a one year old daughter to also think about. It is so unhealthy for her to see and experience these
meltdowns, so for the moment, I will stick to the ritual as we try to alter it. WE are taking a break from karate, to see if that eases the stress- maybe he is involved in too many things. Talked
to his Sensi, and he agreed to allow him to take a month off to see if that helps. (for the record my son is ok with this, his only problem with it is that he doesnt want the older children to
outrank him!) If it helps, then maybe we will keep it as a summer activity, if not and he wants to continue, that is fine too- taking a break was a family decision including my son! Basically
stuck between a rock and a hard place, we tried not giving in, but the meltdown is just too much to bear. Besides as long as the rituals arent extreme, it might be ok to cater to it - its easier
now that I understand WHY we have these rituals. My husband did go to the intake with us, unfortunately due to his work schedule he may not be able to make all of the meetings. That is ok,
he is a wonderful dad and takes such an active role. He is the more patient parent too. I agree- i appreciate all of the wonderful advice and support I am getting here- thank you all so much!
speedo 10-02-05, 05:49 PM I can only imagine what your child is experiencing. From what I have experienced it is so unpleasant. I never quite meltdown copletely, I just get overwhelmed
enough to withdraw. You and yours have my sympathy. It is all about load managmement. A friend of mine has a son with SID, and he has learned to help his 3 year old son manage his
sensory issues and it has made a big difference. (He is one cute kid) It is a ton of work, but once you understand that what you son is experiencing is real and not all in his head" you have a
basis for understanding what he needs to cope with and to work around the sensory problems he has to face all day, every day. Just keep at it. You can not imagine the huge positive difference
you are making in your child's life. Me :D Jaycee 10-02-05, 09:33 PM I may have mentioned something in a earlier post about sensory issues, but I agree with speedo that you may be able
to calm some of the anxiety issues that feed OCD with sensory integration therapy. There is a mini forum dedicated to it here that has a lot of great info. speedo 10-02-05, 11:31PM Iam
applying my experiences here. I may or may not have sensory issues in exactly the same way as your son. For me, a big sensory load leads to stress, and that causes anxiety and then I have
ocd because I am very stressed and too scattered to think. It can take hours for me to reduce my stress levels after a big sensory load like going to a crowded , noisy restaurant, or watching
fireworks. I might enjoy those things but they still stress me and I need to recover from it before I take on more big loads. Maybe creating a nice comfy , cool, quiet, dimly lit place for you child
to "spin down" in after a big thing like going to a movie or to a busy restaurant?? For me, controlling the anxiety and reducing my sensory load are essential. If I do that, I do not have a
problem with OCD. Your mielage may vary....Me :D babyboy 10-04-05, 09:16 PM We don't really go to busy restaurants, actually we RARELY go, there are things he calls "gagables" maybe
its someone chewing with their mouth open, or a baby, or a fly, whatever, but they make him gag. Once we were at a restuarant and a couple with a baby sat at the table across from us- he
literally vomited at the sight of the baby. (that was about the last time we ate at a restaurant. He is ok with his sister (as long as she isn't eating baby food) ANyway... my book order came in
today, and rather than readingthe ones I ordered for US, I read the book I bought for him. (thought that my husband and I should read it to screen prior to allowing him to do so) It's called UP
AND DOWN THE WORRY HILL. EXCELLENT book! It s about a boy and all of his OCD quirks, and it prepares them for the visit to the doctor regarding it and basically assures them they did
nothing wrong and that they are NOT the only one out there. My only concern with allowing him to read it is that the child in the book has many many many quirks, and I don't want to plant
any ideas in his head. Has anyone read the book? Any advice on that one? If someone has OCD - honestly after reading any stories here as well as the research I have done, I would say my
son has a milder case.. would reading about another childs quirks maybe intensify his own quirks? Please forgive my ignorance, I am just trying to understand from HIS point of view. Thelast
thing I want to do is intensify things... ggrozier 10-05-05, 01:25 AM I hope you find a solution. It sounds like you're being so patient with him. I read that when kids go through major
changes, like a younger sibling or starting school, etc, they may regress due to the stress, and need to regroup before they can carry on coping. Sounds like there's a little of that, his being
better when you talked to him as if he were 2 again--maybe he misses being 2 and not having to go off to school, no sister to share you with, no need to be a responsible boy and behave all
day at school. My daughter was pretty much like that, and still likes to be with me so she can just totally relax and not have to deal with other people's expectations. Didn't you say he was
promoted from kindergarten to first grade? I got the impression that was during the school year, not from one year to another. If so that could be hard, being a little bit less socially prepared
than the other kids in his class are. It might be harder on him at this age than it would in high school, for example, to have a year's difference between him and the other kids. We let our
daughter start first grade a year early because she was already reading fluently, and she was always talking about the year's difference until she got to high school. I don't think that itself was
a big problem for her, but since she was so aware of it, it must have meant something to her, bothered her in some way. When my daughter was small I remember reading that when they get
stressed out or misbehave, they don't really understand what they're doing, it's just the only way they can deal with situations where they have no control and don't understand what's going
on, and it's their way of getting some control of their lives. I think someone mentioned that in a previous post. But the point that I think about a lot is that it's wrong to be upset with them
because they're just being little children, can't help what they're doing, don't have any other way of dealing with life. I wish I'd seen that earlier. I don't think you will ever regret doing what
you're doing, because you seem very sensitive to his needs and you're trying in every way you can to help him. It's easy to look back and see patterns, and analyze it, but when you're in the
midst of it all you just have to do the best you can. And that's what you're doing. Please keep us posted, and good luck with it all. babyboy 10-05-05, 10:40 AM Thank you. YEs he was
promoted from kindergarten to garde 1 after about a week and a half. He was actually bored in 1st grade with the work,a s well. His teacher said he is gifted, and some things he was doing in
class, tapping jis pencil, etc. she explained were traits of gifted children, so we also kind of chalked it up to that as well. He is very mature for his age, but his neighbor friends range from
younger to older so 5-8. But he seems really happy in school and he is doing great, he was at the top of his first grade class, and he was placed in the advanced class. As of last November he
was at a 6th grade reading level with ease and was able to do 7th grade with self correction. Haven't had our parent teacher conference yet this year, so it will be interesting to see how he has
progressed. As far as age being off, the cut off age here is June or July, his birthday is in November, so its not a huge age gap actually this morning while he was brushing his teeth before
school I remembered when he was about 2, and he had this routine, we had to line his 'friends' (stuffed animals) outside the bathroom, pretend to brush their teeth one by one, then "bubble
gum! them (before I could trust that he would use the floride rinse, I would brush it on his teeth) and line them back up, the go pu them back- again 1 by 1, we couldnt take more than one or
mess up the order or we would have to start the WHOLE thing over. Then he'd get brushed and have to throw the cap down all of he stairs (we lived in a tri level at the time) then throw the
rinse cup in his playhouse OUTSIDE. Looking back, he always has these little routines, but they didnt lead to the meltdown. I am sure that his sister has contributed to the stress. Our Ist REAL
counselling session is today and he is okay with going to it, so it's great that I don't have that battle to deal with. I will keep you posted. I am very optimistic about dealing with this without
meds. babyboy 10-05-05, 09:47 PM Okay- I really need some advice now. Counselling went great- he had a great time with her. He didnt want to be alone- and she said it was ok for me to
stay in the room. HE was in a great mood, everything was terrific. He can not wait for his next session. HOWEVER, we get home and again with the meltdown. WHY? HE tends to leave games
run on the pc, so he went to download his favorite song and the computer didnt cooperate, so my husband proceeded to reboot the computer- THAT WAS IT! He lost it, then he started finding
fault in EVERYTHING- one day on his lunch calender wasnt circled. (we go through the menu and he decides what days he wants to eat at school, and what days we pack his lunch) Ironically
HE forgot the new menu at school Friday so we didn't even review Monday- we started on Tuesday. Then he wanted candy- but didnt want to eat food first. (we dont allow candy after a certain
time before bed) then one thing after the other, he started to hit, oh excuse me first he threatened to hit, my husband went outside with my daughter- I took him in my arms (not a light load
either) hugged him, held him, rocked him, tried to calm him down but it was too too late. Nothing I said, nothing I did, worked I think it made it worse. So hubby comes back in with our
daughter, my son starts to hit him, over and over again, he left the roomagain, now my daughter is hysterical- she has no clue what is going on. I am seriously at my wits end. so my dilemma
today is- he has been to 2 sessions, after BOTH he has had the WORST meltdowns he has ever had. Now what? Do I continue with the counsellor? I can not handle this, no matter how hard I
try. Earlier in the day we talked about the ocd and I explained that his brain has the hiccups and there is a way to just talk back to it and tell it to go away. He was fine with it until he started
the freak out then he was like- thats not true, there is no such thing... my husband said the counselling isnt doing any good, and I admit it seems to be making things worse, but on the other
hand, we really havent given it enough time to make that determination. again I am caught between a rock and a hard place. ADVICE PLEASE!!! speedo 10-05-05, 11:08 PM This stuff taks
long time to work through. It got better for a little bit, and maybe next ime it will be better a little longer. I think your child just wants his world to be in order, because if it isin't in order it is
scarey because it is hard to understand. It soulds like he got overwhelmed and lost control. Even fun things create stress and anxiety and it has the same effect as if something unhappy
happened to create the stress. If he gets overwhelmed he falls into chaos internally and he ends up with a first class meltdown that is as upleasant for him as it is for you. He is trying as best
he can and it is going to take a while for him to develop the skill he needs to see trouble coming and mitigate his condition. As his family you can help him to spot the things that overwhenm
him. You don't have to protect him from the whole world, but he sure could use your help in spotting and working around all the difficult bits. This is not going to be easy, but what choice do
you have ? just my two cents worth Me Okay- I really need some advice now. Counselling went great- he had a great time with her. He didnt want to be alone- and she said it was ok for me to
stay in the room. HE was in a great mood, everything was terrific. He can not wait for his next session. HOWEVER, we get home and again with the meltdown. WHY? HE tends to leave games
run on the pc, so he went to download his favorite song and the computer didnt cooperate, so my husband proceeded to reboot the computer- THAT WAS IT! He lost it, then he started finding
fault in EVERYTHING- one day on his lunch calender wasnt circled. (we go through the menu and he decides what days he wants to eat at school, and what days we pack his lunch) Ironically
HE forgot the new menu at school Friday so we didn't even review Monday- we started on Tuesday. Then he wanted candy- but didnt want to eat food first. (we dont allow candy after a certain
time before bed) then one thing after the other, he started to hit, oh excuse me first he threatened to hit, my husband went outside with my daughter- I took him in my arms (not a light load
either) hugged him, held him, rocked him, tried to calm him down but it was too too late. Nothing I said, nothing I did, worked I think it made it worse. So hubby comes back in with our
daughter, my son starts to hit him, over and over again, he left the roomagain, now my daughter is hysterical- she has no clue what is going on. I am seriously at my wits end. so my dilemma
today is- he has been to 2 sessions, after BOTH he has had the WORST meltdowns he has ever had. Now what? Do I continue with the counsellor? I can not handle this, no matter how hard I
try. Earlier in the day we talked about the ocd and I explained that his brain has the hiccups and there is a way to just talk back to it and tell it to go away. He was fine with it until he started
the freak out then he was like- thats not true, there is no such thing... my husband said the counselling isnt doing any good, and I admit it seems to be making things worse, but on the other
hand, we really havent given it enough time to make that determination. again I am caught between a rock and a hard place. ADVICE PLEASE!!! ggrozier 10-06-05, 12:02 AM Pleasant
things can be stressful, like getting married, starting a new job you like, etc--not just things you don't like. Change is stressful, and new things, even if you choose them, can be stressful. So
even though he's happy about the counseling, even though he wants to go, and benefits from it, maybe it's awakening some awareness within his mind, of some issues, an awareness that he
can't deal with. When my daughter was in first grade her cousin came to stay with us for a year, and even though my daughter was very happy about it, it meant that I didn't have as much
time for her as previously, because we had to deal with paperwork, picking the cousin up from school, talking to the cousin, etc--and my daughter was accustomed to having all of my attention,
exclusively, especially since we were living in the US and her father was living overseas. So we went from it being just the two of us to a third person who definitely took away some of the
intensive attention she had been getting from me. Remember that she repeatedly said that she was happy about the cousin staying with us, but within a couple of weeks she started having
meltdowns, kicking me, biting me,screaming at me. I tried disciplining her, having her sit on the stairs for timeout, etc, but nothing worked. I was so worried and it was so disruptive and insane
that I quit my job and stayed home, because it was all so stressful to me that I couldn't deal with work anyway, and so that I could pick her up from school myself and have that extra hour or
so with her before we picked up the cousin. It helped absolutely--within a week or so things calmed down. I think that you're doing everything you can think of to help him, and I was really
touched by your picking him up and loving him. But what you think is enough to solve the problem probably just isn't enough for him. Maybe he's exceptionally needy, emotionally, at this time.
There's no meter that can measure what he needs and give you a readout. And even though he says, and believes, that he's happy about being advanced a grade, maybe there is stress
associated with that, things he doesn't realize are problems. After all, many times we have a problem and don't realize that it's something that can be solved, we just think that that's the way
things are, for us, and for everyone. We don't realize that other people don't have these problems, these feelings. I never realized that some of the problems I have with ADD were solvable, I
just thought I had to live with them. And my daughter couldn't express that she just needed extra attention, that she wasn't getting enough attention after the cousin came to stay with us
After all, she was really excited and happy about it, looked forward to it, talked about it all the time, But there was something about it that she couldn't identify, that upset her and frustrated
her and enraged her, and apparently the only way she could cope with it was to lash out and attack me. She couldn't tell me what was wrong in words, the only way she could express her
despair was through that completely uncharacteristic, enraging, behavior. Our minds, especially children's, aren't linear computers that can rationally analyze and come up with an explanation.
I remember that my inner life when I was a kid was very confusing. I did my homework, etc, did well in school, but there were so many things I didn't understand, and never did understand
until I got older. Things that I didn't notice, things that were going on that I was completely unaware of. Didn't understand why certain things happened when they did. Maybe it was the ADD,
and maybe I was just unaware. But my reading level was five or six years ahead of my peers, and so was my daughter's level. I remember that while she was growing up she would suddenly
ask me about something we had seen in the car hundereds of times, but she would ask about it as if that were the first time she'd ever seen it. I don't think that intelligence has anything to do
with it. Your son probably has wonderful, mysterious things going on in his brain which you only get a little glimpse of. I think you need to just be there and do everything you can to reassure
him that everything will be ok, no matter what he does, because you will love him forever and ever and will take care of him and he will be safe with you. And you will protect him from the
world, too, and he can trust you to always trust him and respect him. I would continue with the counselling, unless he wants to stop. And be prepared for him to change his mind, It may be
hard for him to decide what he wants to do--and I wouldn't make that a problem for him. Just take him when he wants to go, and don't take him if he doesn't want to. I know that would be
hard, but little kids can't be expected to fit into our adult schedules and restrictions. He needs you to put him first and nurture him. It really sounds like he's trying to get some control over his,
life, and revert back to a simpler time (which we all wish we could do from time to time). I know that I don't know enough about psychology etc. But looking back, the only thing I regret about
the way I raised my daughter was not realizing that she was always as good as she could be--loving and conscientious. But sometimes it wasn't easy for her, and she needed patience. With the
benefit of hindsight, I wish I had been even more patient with her--and at the time we had this problem I couldn't see anything better that I could have done. As far as the computer upsetting
him, it reminds me of my daughter--one time she got so mad at the computer that she kicked the glass door of a bookcase in her fury, broke the glass, cut her foot, and had to be taken to the
emergency room. So the computer episode sounds pretty normal to me. We adults get frustrated with computers, and we understand them better than kids do. I read recently that people tend
to throw the computers or keyboards around when they get frustrated. So try to keep his computer working smoothly for the next couple of years--it will keep your life going more smoothly! T
think I'm just saying the same thing Speedo is, but not so efficiently. Best of luck, keep us posted. And as long as you're dealing with him with love and patience, everything will be ok, He may
just need more TLC than some other kids do, or more than you thought he would need. Orchids require different care, and more of it, that some more common flowers. But the results are
worth the trouble! kaydog 10-06-05, 07:19 AM Babyboy- I have had OCD since I was 5 years old. For my parents to have known and been able to help/get me help with this would have been
incredible. Have you talked to a therapist besides the school counselor? A good school counselor should be able to provide you with a referral for your child to a child therapist in your area. A
school counselor in this situation should be best utilized as a starting place, a stepping stone. You need to talk with a therapist who specializes in clinical treatment of childhood issues. If OCD is
part of the scene for your child, then what you are dealing with on the surface is only a small window into what frightening things your child may be dealing with inside himself. For instance, the
motivation behind a child's rigidity to adhering to a particular order of things may be an underlying feeling that "if I do not do this exactly so, then something horrible will undoubtedly happen
to the people close to me." Below are the titles of several books. I would pick one or two that you are able to find in your area. I tried to find some that would include descriptions of
Expose/Response Prevention Therapy (ERP). ERP Therapy is VERY effective in treating Obsessive Compulsive Disorders. The difficult part for a parent is that you will without doubt observe
higher levels of anxiety and upset from your child in the course of healing. I encourage you that it is worth it for your child and yourself. OCD can be an enslaving disorder. I encourage you to
find a child therapist in your area and get assistance. kdog Books: Freedom from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder: A Personalized Recovery Program for Living with Uncertainty by Jonathon
Grayson, PhD. Treatment of OCD in Chidren & Adolescents: A Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Manual by Aureen Pinto Wagner, PhD. Freeing Your Child from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder: A
Powerful Program for Parents of Children and Adolescents by Tamar E. Chansky, PhD. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder: Help for Children and Adolescents by Mitzi Waltz babyboy 10-07-05,
06:53 AM Iam really losing it. last night was the worst! Ihe was so out of control, what used to be bedtime rituals is now expanding to other areas. I made an apt with a nerologist- cant see
us until DEC 21st! I couldnt log on last night because I was so upset and shaking s badly from the stress. I want to leave this house, just take my daughter and leave. I lost it with him, things
escalatedd so I much, e was saying he wanted to kill me and I KNOW responded wrong, I KNOW It and I feel so terrible. I am the worst parent in the world, I told him to go ahead so then I
wouldnt have to deal with these meltdowns. How could I say that to him? I am so tired I was up all night agonizing over it, splittingheadache from the crying. I am actually dreading the
weekend! I am actually sick to my stomach.... still. last night was about his friend. I was to go to a home party at my neighbors, hubby would put my daughter to sleep. Keep in mind that I do
not go out all the time, I honestly feel that I had children and its my job to care for them, we would never leave them wth a sitter to go out. That just isnt us. ANyway, I was only ging for about
30-45 minutes, Iit was right next door and I needed some 'me' time. I was going to let him go with me, my nieghbor called to am me that her son wouldnt be home. That was it- he freaked
out, so he went t call my mom (his new calmdown thing and boy am I dreaeding THAT phone bill) anyway awhile later he came by my neighbors looking for me. so we came home and he
freaked again because he didnt do the routine with the baby- by this time she was sound asleep- he started to BANG on the bedroom door- like some physcho killer it was very loud. Then the
worst meltdown I have ever seen. I think my husband doesnt handle it properly which makes it worse, seeing his reaction (and he does TRY, but (no offense guys) moms are generally more.
sensitive, we will call it the maternal instinct) anyway he makes it worse (in my opinion). I can not handle this anymore, I am so willing to try meds right now. So sometimes the way hubby
handles it stresses me out even more. I really want to leave them both at this point. I know... I am a terrible person so you don't have to yell at me speedo 10-07-05, 07:02 PM Oh that
sounds tough beyond belief. I know I could not be around a child who was losing it totally on a regular basis. Still I can not help but wonder, what might have been stressing him out just prior
to him coming apart over the fact that his friend would not be home. I just don't know what to tell you other than that I can imagine how awful it must feel to see one's child in that state. Me
:D_ggrozier 10-07-05, 08:24 PM I don't know you personally but I know absolutely that you will hang in there with him. You have to vent, you have to have time to yourself. You don't stop
being human just because you're a mother. He's probably going through some stressful events these days, and what you thought was the worst probably isn't yet--maybe it will get even worse
Just take heart, and remember that twenty years from now he's going to look back and remember your love and compassion (especially if you remind him!--as I did my daughter!) And he'll tell
you over and over how much he appreciates what you did for him, and he'll treat you like a queen, and you'll forget how hard it was. Try to keep that in mind. You're having a hard time, and
T'm sure many of us are praying for you and thinking of you and hoping you'll find a solution. He really needs you, but he doesn't realize what's going on or what effect he's having on you. T
feel so sorry for your family, and don't know what I'd do in your place, or if I'd be able to deal with it as well as you have (Ok, I'm sure I wouldn't). It's really clear to me that something is
upsetting him in a major way, and you need to find out what it is. He's a sad little person in a big scary world, and he has no one to help him but his mom. He's telling you in the only way he
can that he needs help. When he was a baby he couldn't tell you that he was hungry, he could only cry, and you had to learn to distinguish whether he was hungry, or cold, or needed a change,
or had an earache, or a tummy ache. Now he's hurting and you just need to keep working to find out what the problem is, because he can't explain it now any more than he could when he was
an infant. It's really hard to tell, but I'd want to be sure that nothing is happening at school or in the neighborhood, make sure he isn't being bullied or abused. I'd call the neurologist back and
tell them that you're in a serious crisis situation, an emergency, and if they can't see you right away, they need to tell you what else you can do, right now, today, because the situation may
become dangerious. Maybe you can plan ahead, and if he needs to go through the ritual with his sister, start early in the evening, arranging a structured plan for the last few hours of the day.
Start lowering the lights, turning off the tv, so that the stimulation will gradually be removed and he'll start being emotionally prepared for bedtime. The worst problems seem to be around
bedtime, so concentrate on that. Let him help plan the routine, For example, ask him how many times per week he thinks is reasonable to call grandma, and when he thinks he should do it,
and explain the constraints, the expense, and set a limit. Encourage him to call when the rates are lowest, for example. Maybe if he has more input, and helps to control what's happening, and
when it happens, it will work out better. Wish you the best. babyboy 10-07-05, 10:16 PM Today was much better- after reading from all of you very supportive people! I started to think, and
one post talked about stress from happy events as well. Obviously a wedding or something major is totally intense. SOmetimes (since he is so mature) we tend to think of him as being older
than he really is. So going over it in my head... days he has playdates or on weekends when we run errands, he tends to freak. TODAY, I simply picked him up from school, we came straight
home, did homework, my husband occupied my daughter (best as he could) for a short while - he and I had some one on one time. I brought her up to put her to bed, we did the routine, he
went to call his 'dram' then it was 7:30 he went upstairs and went to bed NO PROBLEM. It was wonderful! If al nights could go this smoothly- I'd have to desert all my new friends here! I am
going to pick up a planner dedicated to monitoring WHAT we do and his reactions. Last night for example, after school, he had karate, then as I mentioned I went to my neighbors. So that was
a double whammy. When he plays with his friends, he has a blast, but at bedtime he seems to be more irritable. So I am thinking that bedtime is just unload time, so I want to keep a diary of
events to see some sort of pattem, then we can determine HOW to work on it. (By the way we are on a flat rate plan 3 cents per minute regardless- I am actually more concerned about how
he kills the batteries on the cordless and my cell (and I telecommute so I need them!) I am fine with it if it calms him down. My mom is actually fine with it too- she is wortied sick about him
which doesn't help her health. But up until a few months ago I worked 3 days a week and telecommuted the other 2, SHE watched him since he was a child- they are VERY VERY close. She
would do ANYTHING for him, he is her baby! Unfortnately she is very ill and can no longer watch them, that situation was the best of both worlds, now I telecommute 4 days and go in the office
on Mondays. That is his other bad day- since our schedule (while always consistent) is slightly different than the other days! He gets upset that I shower BEFORE he gets up. I think this Monday
I will wake him up 20 minutes early to see if that helps things in the am. My husband is home with them Mondays- he has a hard enough time with the baby because she is so attached to her
mommy, so when my son acts out: it makes it so much more stressful, and I am sure that fuels the fire. Nothing against anyone who choses it, but for US daycare is not an option
Unfortunately we need BOTH incomes, and even worse I carry the insurance, PPO health, dental, life and std, Itd- that I pay nothing for. So thats a major deal. I thank God everyday that my
employer is allowing me to telecommute. I just cant bear the thought of strangers raising my children. It was ok when my mom watched them because I feel that bond is vital. I never had
grandparents, so they need that. ALthough I never thought my mom was the best parent, I can honestly say that she is the best grandparent. Does that sound weird? The one thing I can say is
that I truly believe in schedules and consistency. During summer vacation, he still wakes up at the same time as during the school year- even as a baby, we would schedule activites AROUND
his naptime. Obviously I am much calmerr now- apologies for my mini breakdown earlier. Oh also- we decided NOT to wait until DEcember- so I did contact a regular neurologist and found one
that will treat a child, November 8th unless there is a cancellation. ALso we have soe friends that 'know a guy' and they are tryingto pull some strings to get us in sooner. ggrozier 10-07-05,
11:23 PM That's such a relief. Thanks for updating us. Maybe he gets overstimulated and needs a very calm orderly routine. I hope he'll be fine, and maybe it'll get better over time. Please
keep us posted. Jaycee 10-08-05, 12:34 AM Hey Girl, I'm right there with you on the stress levels. My five year old also has meltdowns on a regular basis. After his next one, when he's calm
see if he remembers doing the hitting kicking ect. My son does not most of the time. If he cannot remember the incedent, then, he probably cannot control his behavior. I did get the good news
today that the EEG that we did with him showed no irriegular brain activity. My psychologist keeps telling me I have to get rid of some stressors, but when you have a child that has meltdowns,
you just naturally have a lot of stress. CJ has been "the perfect child and model student" at school. He's earned to hyperfocus, and pulls away from social activity that might risk his control
(almost everything), and seeks high sensory stim on the playground to keep it together. However, the moment he gets on the bus, all he!! breaks loose. Today he lost it at the specialist office
and then at his regular doctors office. I've had days like the one you had yesterday, and CJ can be the most loving of my 4 children. You need to give yourself permission to take time for
yourself...even if he has a meltdown. As you are finding out, a stressed mom and holding it together while he's screeming and tearing things up are rarely found together. Being a stay at home
mom is stressful, and doubly so when you're child has issues. When mom gets stressed the ripple effect follows at my house. Take the time you need. In the long run it will benefit all of you
Remember to take time with your husband and maybe even help him deal, by creating a game plan for the meltdowns. Most kids respond well to deep pressure hugs-- It helps them regain
control and calm down. Remember NOT to get into verbal battles with him.. This only escalates the prob. You need to tell him the behavior to stop AND give him the correct behavior to follow.
Your husband is probably just as stressed but deals with it differently than you do. Despite My sons stellar behavior at school (or maybe because of it) we are still anticipating the call that says,
he's hurt antother student or torn up the classroom. My husband interalizes his stress, while I cry, write to you guys, talk it out, and generally just let loose. I think it's worse because it's his,
oldest son. Although he loves our daughters, there is still that male pride in sons (sighs). Hang in there and start your diary. If you don't have "The Out of Sync Child" by Carol Kranowitz, you
should grab a copy. There's a great form for keeping track of behaviors as well as some good general info all parents need about sensory diets for kids. jan babyboy 10-08-05, 07:45 AM Will
do on all counts- boy do I have a lot of reading to do. Thought I was safe until he hit puberty, boy was I wrong! I think that we will start something different about an hour before bed, naturally
Thave to convince him of this first. Thank you guys for your support, it really helps me stay on track. babyboy 10-10-05, 09:41 PM things are just getting worse! YEsterday he woke up at 3
am, mad that his dad didnt remind him to call his gram, when hubby pointed out that he would remind him when it was time to wake up, he went ballistic. 3 am!!!!!! FINALLY I was like- honey
come get in bed and snuggle with mommy- and he did. I did start my journal, have alot to record from yesterday and this morning when he started to wail on me because his bedroomdoor was
shut. Monday is the only day I go into the office- I telecommute the other 4 days and he has serious issues with it, no matter how I try to prepare him. seems like the nights we get him to bed
without the meltdown, he wakes up and has one. I think I will jump start and start calling for a psychiatrist (in case they have a wait list too!) too soon to do that? If this goes on much longer T
may need one for myself! ggrozier 10-10-05, 10:52 PM Sounds like you know what causes the trouble--not going through the ritual with the baby, not calling the grandma, etc. Maybe if
you'd make a list of things he wants to do, and run down that list every evening, it would give him a chance to deal with everything, and maybe that process itself would reassure him. Continue
with the journal so you know what the issues are and incorporate those into the list. You're not going to be able to skip things, because if you do it will upset him and cause even more stress
for everyone. But if you remember to do everything he needs maybe he'll calm down, at least until you can see a specialist. Maybe you can encourage him to drop one thing from the list every
month or so, as he grows up and matures, and praise him and encourage him for getting to be so mature and independent. And if he wants to add something to his ritual, ask him if he's ready
to drop something, but let him be in control. This seems to be his time of need. It seems like you just have to go along with his rituals in order to have some peace and order, but maybe you
can wean him off them. Could you incorporate some special little treat for him on Mondays? So he has something to look forward to on that day? Special time with you, or maybe his dad could
do something with him after school, something quiet but something he would consider a special treat and would compensate for the change, not having Mom around that day. You said he's
taking karate. It has great rituals and teaches self control. Maybe he and his dad could go to lessons together. When my daughter was doing it I saw several father-son pairs doing it together.
Maybe he can do that more frequently. Please keep posting. Don't you have an appointment in early November? It's not that long now! kaydog I think those are normal thoughts with a child
with any type of illness. babyboy 10-11-05, 06:51 AM Yes my appt is November 8th. Yesterday was our last karate class, we are taking a month off to see if that eases his stress. If there is
no change and he wants to continue- that is fine, BUT if I see that he improves, we may just keep it as a summer activity. He is also in Scouts. I woke up awhile ago and he is in my bed,
snoring away. Iam almost dreaidng waking up. He has a sleepover coming up and I asked him WHAT BOUT YOUR BEDTIME RITUAL? ARE YOU REALLY GOING TO DO THAT WITH YOUR
FRIENDS? He said he would skip it, so I am HOPING at that time we can break the cycle. my sister is skeptical she thinks it is bad behavior. She sent me the folllowing article... any thoughts on
this? Mom, My Throat Hurts A Link Found Between Strep Infection and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder in Children Children tend to manifest illnesses in particular ways. Some always get ear
infections, others develop croup, and still others tend to get strep throat repeatedly. Scientists have found that some obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD) and tic disorders may be set off by
the same infectious bacteria that cause strep throat. While it is rare for children to develop OCD from strep, one in 1,000 children may develop OCD-related problems following a strep infection
The good news is that the infection itself can be treated successfully with antibiotics. Time, however, is an important factor in treatment. In children who do not exhibit a sore throat or fever
with a strep infection, a sudden onset of OCD symptoms and /or tics should alert parents and doctors to the possibility of a hidden strep infection and the need for antibiotics. Many
pediatricians are still unfamiliar with the connection between strep and sudden-onset OCD. This association, discovered over a decade ago, is called PANDAS, Pediatric Autoimmune
Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infection. Susan Swedo, MD, a member of the ADAA Scientific Advisory Board, helped discover the syndrome and heads the National
Institute of Mental Health PANDAS research team. According to Dr. Swedo, about 1 in 10 young children with OCD fits the PANDAS criteria. These