Life expectancy at birth, total (years) 45 Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP) 34 GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) 5907 Foreign direct investment, net inflows (% of GDP)
0.8 Unemployment, total (% of total labor force) 23 Time required to start a business (days) 22 Internet users (per 1,000 people) (2004 figure) 78 Source: World Development Indicators
 *Most recent data available 2001-2007Last updated: September 2008 South Africa Cis 1994 transition from apartheid to constitutional democracy has been one of the most astonishing
political achievements of our time. It is a powerful demonstration that a peaceful, negotiated path from conflict and injustice to cooperation and reconciliation is possible. Since 1994, the
African National Congress (ANC) has won landslide victories in each democratic election held. Elections are well managed and fair, and the press unrestrained. Small opposition partiers are
vociferous and enjoy full political freedom. In the 1999 elections Thabo Mbeki, who had succeeded Nelson Mandela as head of the ANC, and became South AfricaCls new president.
Parliamentary elections in April 2004 again resulted in a resounding victory for the ANC. President Mbeki was reelected. At the second round of post-apartheid local government elections in
March 2006 ANC took two-thirds of the vote. During the December ANC Conference, Jacob Zuma was elected Party President. Parliamentary and Presidential elections are to be held in 2009.
South Africa is a country with extreme differences in incomes and wealth, Thirteen percent of the population lives in "first world" conditions, while nearly 50% live in developing country
conditions. In this latter group, only one-quarter of households have access to electricity and running water; only half have a primary school education; and over a third of the children suffer
from chronic malnutrition. Poverty levels have not reduced significantly and the burden of HIV/AIDS and unemployment remains high. Despite the enormity of the backlogs, government
initiatives to meet these challenges have had encouraging results. The pro-poor reorientation of spending has contributed to improved social development indicators in a range of areas,
particularly relating to access to services and education, and progress has also been made toward meeting some of the other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). However, poverty, hunger,
child mortality and HIV/AIDS-prevalence MDGs are unlikely to be met, if current trends persist. Economy Economic Performance Economic growth, while not spectacular, is nonetheless robust
and keeping an upward trend: between 1994 and 2003, real GDP grew at an average of about 3 percent, which was about thrice the growth rate recorded between 1980 and 1993. The growth
rate for 2004 - 2006 was about 5 percent, before slowing down to a projected 3.8% in 2008 in the face of higher fuel and commodity prices. South AfricaCls revenue collection and fiscal and
debt management are considered international best practice, as demonstrated by a balanced budget and very low external and domestic debt. South Africa comfortably borrows off-shore in its
own currency, and at unprecedented low sovereign risk spreads: a demonstration of investor confidence which is rare for emerging markets. Greater integration with the rest of the world
resulted in a sharp tumaround in productivity performance. Exchange controls have been gradually liberalized, and the average (un-weighted) tariff on imports into South Africa was reduced
from 22 percent to around 11 percent, while virtually all quantitative restrictions were removed. This resulted in more diversified exports, reducing, in particular, the dominance of mining
However, overall export performance is disappointing: exports as a share of GDP are at around 25 percent, which is relatively low, while exports per capita are barely higher than in 1960. SA
Real GDP Growth, Inflation and Unemployment While South Africas success in stabilizing the economy is impressive, the low growth in jobs and investment leaves significant room for
improvement. While investment has risen in recent years, due to reduced government budget deficits and lower borrowing costs, domestic investment is constrained by relatively low levels of
saving, and foreign investment is relatively insignificant, in particular in green field investments. It would appear that investors have been deterred by a range of factors, including the high cost
of skilled labor, exchange rate volatility, labor relations and crime. High unemployment is the most important constraint to both poverty reduction and accelerating growth in South Africa. After
the fall of Apartheid, a perfect storm gathered to aggravate the unemployment levels from around 15 percent to the current 23 percent, while real wages were essentially stagnant. Challenges
ahead and Government priorities South Africa Cis development strategy faces the twin challenges of accelerating growth and sharing its benefits, by broadening participation, extending
opportunities to all and improving the impact of public service delivery. The recent energy crisis has impacted negatively on the economy, particularly on the mining sector and has prompted a
revision of the growth rates. Partly as a response to the ten year review, Government launched the Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative for South Africa (ASGISA) in 2006. One of
ASGISADs main goals is to bridge the divide between the so-called first and second economiesCla metaphor for the existing dualism. Its analytical framework derives from the binding
constraints analysis, which was recently developed by a number of prominent international economists. The current development objectives are to eradicate poverty and reduce inequality by:
@ Accelerating the pace of growth, and the rate of investment in productive capacity; Intervening decisively to advance the involvement of the marginalized in economic activity through
expanded job creation and the promotion of sustainable livelihoods; Maintaining a progressive social security net alongside investment in community services and human development;
Improving the capacity and effectiveness of the state; and Building regional and international partnerships for growth and development. World Bank Group Program Program to date Between
1951 and 1966, the Bank made 11 loans to South Africa, totaling US$ 242 million, largely for expanding the country(s rail and harbor systems and for generating and transmitting electricity.
The Bank ceased lending operations to South Africa in 1966 and the loans from that earlier period have been fully repaid. In 1991, the Bank resumed activities in South Africa through a
comprehensive program of economic policy advice and capacity building. After 1994, the Bank Group continued to provide policy advice, but also limited lending and grants. In addition, the
Bank resumed project lending through the Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project in 1997, now closed and fully disbursed. A Technical Assistance Loan for the Municipal Financial
Management Technical Assistance Project (MEMTAP) was approved in 2002 for an amount of US$15 million. The project closed recently. There are no IBRD loans at present. South Africa and
Lesotho have jointly implemented the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, with the South African side repaying the two World Bank loans associated with this project for a total disbursed amount
of about US$90 million. The project transfers water from the highlands of Lesotho to the Gauteng region of South Africa. Several capacity-building activities were funded through grants from
the Institutional Development Fund and infoDev. In addition, the World Bank managed a number of technical assistance grants from the Cities Alliance for South AfricaCIs cities. program is one
of the largest with a number of national and regional GEF grants for nature conservation, renewable energy, and the phase-out of toxic chemicals, for a total of just under US$80 million. GEF
The Os committed portfolio in South Africa has grown steadily to more than $500 million in 23 projects. This is IFCOs second largest portfolio in Sub-Saharan Africa, after Nigeria. IFC has
marketed its investment guarantee services to South African banks, development agencies and the Export Credit Insurance Corporation of South Africa. MIGA actively promotes outbound
investment in Africa by South African companies. Consequently, South Africa is MIGACs eighth largest investor country, accounting for US$206.7 million or 4 percent of the AgencyCs gross
exposure. MIGA The , the capacity development arm of the World Bank Group, has been active in South Africa and recently South Africa became a focus country for WBI. A detailed capacity
building program has been developed focused exclusively on specific demands from stakeholders in South Africa and building partnerships with local institutions. WBI Country Partnership
Strategy (2008-2012) The Bank jointly with IFC and MIGA, and the South African Treasury prepared the (CPS), which was presented to the Board of Executive Directors in January 2008. The
CPS sets out a framework for engagement with South Africa for 2008-2012. It reflects, most importantly, South Africa's own development priorities as set out in the Accelerated Shared Growth
Initiative-South Africa (ASGISA) and South AfricaZ]s unique position in the region. The Bank is working closely with IFC, MIGA and all other development partners active in South Africa. Priority
areas for World Bank engagement include: urban development; private sector development; building partnerships for Africa; social protection; land reform and agriculture; and public sector
service delivery. Country Partnership Strategy Contact Information World Bank Office in Pretoria, South Africa Office Phone: (27-12) 431-3100 Email:Country Director: Ruth Kagia