Scholarships & Fellowships Take the challenge! The is designed to give you a "sampling" of the numerous post-graduate scholarships and fellowships available to you. Connecticut College
Fellowships and Scholarships Guide Post-baccalaureate fellowships provide life-changing opportunities for Connecticut College students and alumni. Given what you know and given the skills
you possess that allow you to put your knowledge to work, you are in a prime position to compete for one of these awards, and we are here to help you. Some scholarships and fellowships
provide generous financial support for study and research. Others may confer more prestige than money. Prestige that comes with winning one award can help you win another. High successful
students have sometimes won several of these scholarships and fellowships. The Fulbright program recently announced that View the Connecticut College is a top producer of Fulbright
students. list of Fulbright, Luce, Watson and other fellowship award winners. The College is bolstering its support for students seeking high-profile national fellowships and scholarships. in
CC:Magazine online. Read "Opening the Door to Fellowships" Browse through the opportunities in the guide. If you think you might be interested in exploring further, (writable PDF) and submit
it to Deborah Dreher, Associate Dean of Fellowships and Scholarships. Dean Dreher will help you access your candidacy, focus your study or research interest and may also point you in the
direction of other possibilities. She will then refer you to the campus contact person for the fellowships you are considering. complete this Preliminary Fellowships/Scholarship Application We
invite you to take the challenge! Associate Dean for Fellowships and Scholarships and Director of CELS Deborah V. Dreher Associate Dean of Studies for Juniors and Seniors Associate Professor
of English Philip E. Ray Barbara Zaccheo Kohn '72 Professor of Chemistry Faculty Coordinator of Fellowships and Scholarships Marc Zimmer _ Last Modified: Friday, November 21, 2008 14:29
 Related Links: