Welcome  Group Tours If you have a group tour pre-scheduled on a closed date, please be patient. The Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau, who operates the Central Reservation
system for the sites, is aware of the situation and will be contacting all of the groups scheduled, in date order, to make adjustments to the schedules. For obvious reasons, schedules need to be
changed immediately for those groups with tours scheduled in the near future. These schedule changes are a top priority, so you will hear from someone at the Bureau very soon. Our audio
archive lists site histories, the original sound and light show from the Old State Capitol in Springfield, and a walking tour of the historic buildings at the Illinois State Fairgrounds. Agency
Services The Illinois Historic Preservation Agency operates over 60 historic sites and memorials. The Agency also administers the . The library is the states chief historical and genealogical
research facility that is home to the state's world-renowned Abraham Lincoln collection. The library houses the Agency's collection of more than 12 million items of Illinois history. The museum
combines scholarship and showmanship to communicate the amazing life and times of Abraham Lincoln in unforgettable ways and features many of our Lincoln artifacts as well as two main
theaters. We administer all state and federal historic preservation and incentive programs in Illinois, including the National Register of Historic Places. Thank you for visiting. Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library and Museum For more information, please call 217/785-1511 or email HPA.info@illinois.gov Illinois Historic Preservation Agency and Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library &
Museum press contact: 217/558-0516 Special Events & Programs Education services, the history fair, and valuable publications. Financial assistance to graduate students in history and
library science The American Institute of Architects Protecting Illinois historic cemeteries. Search the database of Illinois documents. llinois communities sharing their stories of Lincoln. Get
design ideas from our experts. Sheet metal designs of the past. Reclaim and reuse vacant upper floors Latest News