Your registration expires after 12 or 24 months, depending on what renewal option you choose. Renew VA Registration Your registration must be current in order to drive a vehicle within the
state. Of course, you'll also need some sort of financial coverage, too. Most drivers opt for auto liability insurance; you can find cartiers and hunt for the best rates through our . Insurance
Center Read our "Check Your Renewal Notice" below and the ensuing information to learn about your renewal options. Register a Vehicle in VA for the First Time Did you just buy a vehicle or
move to the state? Then, you'll need to conduct an initial . registration Register a Non-Operational Vehicle The state doesn't have a special registration for vehicles that aren't in working
condition, and these vehicles must follow the same renewal process as those that are in operation. 2) Check Your Renewal Notice Before your registration expires, you should receive a renewal
notice in the mail. You don't need to have this card to renew, though. If you didn't receive your card and are concerned about it, call (866) DMVLINE or (866) 368-5463. Your renewal notice
may indicate that it's time for a , so be sure to follow the instructions before you head out to renew. smog check 3) Calculate Your Fees vary according to the weight and type of your vehicle.
Your renewal notice will indicate your fee. Registration fees Before you renew your registration, you may want to to make sure you're getting the best deal, and possibly lower your total
vehicle-related costs. compare insurance quotes Avoid Late Fees and Penalties The state doesn't assess a late fee or penalty on tardy registrations, but you should remember that it's illegal to
drive with an expired registration. 4) Renew Online, In Person, By Mail, or By Phone Renew Online Have your renewal card or current registration available. Take note of your requirements, as
you may need to provide this information. smog check Be prepared to enter your title number and your vehicle identification number (VIN). Be ready to pay your fee with your major credit or
debit card, or with a check. Go to the and follow the instructions. online renewal site You'll save either $1 or $2 (depending upon the length of your registration) off the standard registration
fee if you renew online. Allow between five to 15 days to receive your decals in the mail. If you're close to the registration expiration date, print the receipt and carry it along with your
registration card until your renewal materials arrive. In Person Have ready your renewal card or current registration, and any requirements your renewal card may indicate. smog check Be
ready to pay the renewal fee (if paying at a Customer Service Center, you'll pay an extra $5 fee unless you have another transaction to make that can't be done online, by mail, by telephone,
or at a DMV Select locations). Go to a or . DMV Select Customer Service Center By Mail If applicable, take care of your . smog check Send the card and your fee payment to: Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles Attn: Renewal Center