In God We Trust. All Others We Monitor." The Trackertm Covert Electronic Tracking System, Complete System (Order #6500) Beeper Bumper System The is a revolutionary new Radio
Direction Finder (RDF) and electronic tracking system designed specifically for law enforcement covert tracking. Consisting of a 4-antenna DF array for magnetic mounting on a vehicle and an
enhanced Doppler DF processor with proprietary DSP algorithms, the is ready to monitor almost any type of electronic tracking beacon and provide you with a bearing and relative range to the
signal. TrackerTracker Specifically designed for law enforcement and military applications, the overcomes the serious problem of multipath interference common to virtually every other
radio direction finder. Two powerful microprocessors apply newly developed algorithms to analyze and discard confusing indications due to phase shift from multipath signals. The result is a
clear, unambiguous bearing to the target. The is very easy to use even for non-technical personnel. TrackerTracker Multi site RDF networks are simple to implement. The includes an RS232
port, and the unit can overlay NMEA GPS data from virtually any GPS receiver onto the DF bearing and output the data to a laptop running a mapping program. Additionally, our software can be
used to implement small or large area coverage multi-site applications where DF bearings from all-equipped stations are linked via a packet data channel and displayed simultaneously in
realtime on all computers in the net. This application is common in man-critical work such as kidnaping/ransom tracking, executive protection, drug interdiction, etc. A simple beacon is all that
is needed in the package to be tracked. TrackerTRACKnet Tracker Vehicle Tracking Transmitter "Bumper Beeper" P/N TRV-2W - Vehicle Beacon with Motion Sensor Use the to follow and
locate body wires, vehicle tracking beacons, tagged CDS shipments or cash packages, stuck transmitters, pirate/stolen transmitters, deliberate or inadvertent interference, covert beacons,
HAZMAT shipments, etc. Anywhere you need to follow an RF signal is a job for theTrackerTracker. Tracker Specifications Frequency coverage: 50 - 1300 megacycles. Antenna p/n 6011 covers
50-700 megacycles. Antenna p/n 6010 covers 700-1300 megacycles. Antennas consist of four whips, control harness, magnetic mounting, assembly arms. Antennas are active, >8.2 dB gain to
500 megacycles with less than 5 dB noise. Antenna assembly 20 inches (508 mm) square. Bearing indication: High brightness 16 LED array (indicates 360 degrees around you) Control Head
Size: 2.78 x 4.6 x 0.9 inches (71 x 117 x 23 mm). Weight 3.3 ounces (150g) Power Requirements: 13.8 VDC @ 190 milliamps RF Pulse Duration for Maximum Accuracy: 32 milliseconds
minimum. ), in Statistical Mode onlyHigh Accuracy (+/- 1.40625 The p/n 6500 is a turnkey, ready to use covert vehicle direction finding system complete with high performance receiver, front
panel receiver controls, 20 segment LED bargraph signal strength (range) indicator, battery test indicator, large speaker, internal gelcell rechargeable batteries for 4 hour operation, battery
charger, 12VDC cigar lighter power cable, remote control head with 5 foot cable, and motion sensing FCC type accepted vehicle tracking beacon.Tracker The #6500 is packaged in a rugged,
waterproof Pelican case with intemal storage compartment for the control head, cables and beacon. The #6500 DF system also is available in a CAP configuration on 121.5 megacycles for
locating downed aircraft. Units can be built to nearly any frequency between 50-1300 megacycles with fixed frequency or tunable receivers. Inquire. TRACKER Radio Direction Finder Price
List Stock #