Partners People to Jobs is a program that works to improve public transportation in cities and towns in Southwestern Connecticut so that residents - including low-income workers and
Temporary Assistance to Needy Families recipients - can have better access to jobs.People to Jobs periodically examines the routes of bus service provided by , , Milford Transit District, and the
in coordination with the and .The People to Jobs Regional Transportation Task Force Greater Bridgeport Transit CT Transit, Valley Transit District Norwalk Transit District Connecticut Department
of Transportation Metro-North The Task Force, in collaboration with transit operators, decides where additional or new routes are needed, and when extended service is needed, such as holiday
seasons. With funding from the Connecticut Department of Social Services, the Connecticut Department of Transportation, and the Federal Transit Administration, the People to Jobs Regional
Transportation Task Force finances the improvements. Better bus service gets more people to more jobs in the region. Job retention increases the quality of life for residents. The region's
economy benefits from a mobile workforce. People to Jobs helps make it happen. People to Jobs also provides informed transportation planning assistance in the Career Centers. Staff
members will assist job seekers in navigating bus routes for childcare and employment. People to Jobs stays responsive to the needs of the region by maintaining broad-based representation
from government, business, regional planning agencies, chambers of commerce, social service providers, job developers, and transportation providers.CTWorks The People to Jobs Regional
Transportation Task Force has: Expanded bus service in Stamford, Norwalk, Bridgeport, Trumbull, Fairfield, Stratford, Shelton, and Derby. Created regional service: Coastal Link provides direct
service from Milford to Norwalk and operates seven days a week. More information, including the People to Jobs Progress Report, may be found at www.peopletojobs.org People to Jobs is a
project of The WorkPlace, Inc. in partnership with the CT Dept. of Social Services,CT Dept. of Transportation & the Federal Transit Administration. For information contact: The WorkPlace, Inc
350 Fairfield Avenue Bridgeport, CT 06604 (203) 610-8544