Selections from the newspaper about public TV and radio in the United States Hewitt plans PBS show, NPR courts Koppel Originally published in , May 31, 2005Current By Mike Janssen
Several network-news vets have announced departures from longtime gigs in recent months, and pubcasters are angling to welcome two of them: Don Hewitt and Ted Koppel. When Koppel
announced in March his plans to leave ABC's by the end of the year, NPR was first in line to talk with the longtime host and correspondent. Hewitts plans are more concrete. In fall 2006 PBS
will air , a series of documentary digests curated by the mastermind behind .NightlineDon Hewitt Presents60 Minutes Hewitt created and launched , television's top-rated newsmagazine, in
1968 and served as its executive producer until June 2004, when  not wholly willingly, according to media reports  he stepped down to become a roving e.p. for CBS News.60 Minutes
About two months ago, Hewitt and Harry Moses, his longtime collaborator at CBS, approached South Carolina ETV about producing for pubTV. Moses had a longtime working relationship with
Polly Kosko, SCETV's v.p. of national programming. Hewitt has never collaborated with PBS but was the subject of an profile [].American Masters PBS website Conceived as six hourlong
episodes to start, the show they're working up sounds much like , with several short-form stories in each installment. But John Wilson, PBS's senior v.p. ofprogramming, emphasizes that it will
focus more on human-interest stories and less on the public affairs that is trademark fare.60 Minutes60 Minutes We dont want to add more public affairs per se to the primetime schedule,
Wilson says, but we're always open to good storytelling and human drama... If anyone can deliver a good story and characters in the real world, it's Don Hewitt. His genius is he knows how
to tell a story, says SCETVs Kosko. (Hewitt declined to comment on the new show, deferring to PBS.) Earlier this month Hewitt, Moses, Kosko and Wilson met at PBS to view a half-hour
mockup of that featured pared-down versions of documentaries to which Hewitt already owned rights. Stories dealt with Italian conductor Riccardo Muti at war with the tastes of his audience, a
survivor of a World War II death march recounting her experiences, and two foster children who were reunited after many years apart.Don Hewitt Presents Kosko expects the show to rely
mostly on freelance contributions from established documentarians, young up-and-comers and those working in digital media. Theres a great opportunity for affiliates to work with us on this,
as well as independent producers, she adds. Kosko and the show's producers are developing a budget and funding plan, with plans to finance the show without help from PBS. Neither Ted
Koppel nor NPR has announced specific plans for a project, but early signs are promising. Jay Kernis, NPR's senior v.p. of programming, believes he was the first to call Koppel after the
newsman announced March 31 that he would leave and ABC News by the end of the year. [His last show will be Nov. 22, 2005. As of early November, a spokesperson for NPR said the network
was not expecting Koppel to make a decision until after leaving ABC. ]Nightline Koppel, host of for 25 years, told reporters he was unwilling to stick with the new format ABC is planning: a live
show five nights a week, expanded from its current half-hour to an hour.Nightline Kernis first courted Koppel in 2002, when ABC unsuccessfully attempted to replace with David Letterman's
talk show. In April, Kernis and Koppel talked by phone, and Kernis asked for the newsman to come on board in whatever way he felt comfortable. Koppel said he was very interested, Kernis
says, and the two expect to talk again in a few months.Nightline Tom Bettag, Koppels longtime producer and a producer of pubTV's departed , told the he and Koppel were planning an
aggressive proposal for a new venture.Life 360Washington Post PBS's Wilson says he believes network President Pat Mitchell has also talked with Koppel. Web page posted Nov. 3, 2005
Copyright 2005 by Current Publishing Committee Hewitt is creating a six-part doc showcase in cooperation with South Carolina ETV. EARLIER ARTICLE Koppel's production unit worked on the
short-lived PBS magazine show in 2001-2002. Life 360 LINKS web page about its Hewitt bio. American Masters Koppel's will air on ABC Nov. 22, 2005, Reuters reported, last Nightline