Construction of the Thomas Jefferson Building, from July 8, 1888 to May 15, 1894. [] edit Origins and Jefferson's donation (1800 1851) The Library of Congress was established on April 24,
1800, when signed an providing for the transfer of the seat of government from to the new capital city of Washington. Part of the legislation appropriated $5,000 "for the purchase of such
books as may be necessary for the use of Congress ..., and for fitting up a suitable apartment for containing them..." Books were ordered from and the collection, consisting of 740 books and
30 maps, was housed in the new . Although the collection covered a variety of topics, the bulk of the materials were legal in nature, reflecting Congress role as a maker of laws. President John
Adams Act of Congress Philadelphia London Capitol [6] played an important role in the Library's early formation, signing into law on January 26, 1802 the first law establishing the structure of
the Library of Congress. The law established the presidentially appointed post of and a to regulate and oversee the Library, as well as giving the president and vice president the ability to
borrow books. The Library of Congress was destroyed in August 1814, when invading troops and the small library of 3,000 volumes within. Thomas Jefferson Librarian of Congress Joint
Committee on the Library [6] British set fire to the Capitol building [6] Within a month, former President Jefferson offered his personal library as a replacement. Jefferson had spent 50 years
accumulating a wide variety of books, including ones in foreign languages and volumes of , , , and other topics not normally viewed as part of a legislative library, such as cookbooks, writing
that, "I do not know that it contains any branch of science which Congress would wish to exclude from their collection; there is, in fact, no subject to which a Member of Congress may not have
occasion to refer." In January 1815, Congress accepted Jefferson's offer, appropriating $23,950 for his 6,487 books. [7] [8] philosophy science literature [6] [] edit Weakening (1851 1865)
The period was difficult for the Library. During the 1850s the 's librarian aggressively tried to move that organization towards becoming the United States' national library. His efforts were
blocked by the Smithsonian's Secretary , who advocated a focus on scientific research and publication and favored the Library of Congress' development into the national library. Henry's,
dismissal of Jewett in July 1854 ended the Smithsonian's attempts to become the national library, and in 1866 Henry transferred the Smithsonian's forty thousand-volume library to the Library
of Congress. antebellum Smithsonian Institution Charles Coffin Jewett Joseph Henry [6] On December 24, 1851 the largest fire in the Library's history destroyed 35,000 books, about
two-thirds of the Library's 55,000 book collection, including two-thirds of Jefferson's original donation. Congress in 1852 quickly appropriated $168,700 to replace the lost books but not for the
acquisition of new materials. This marked the start of a conservative period in the Library's administration under Librarian and Joint Committee Chairman , who worked to restrict the Library's
activities. In 1857, Congress transferred the Library's public document distribution activities to the and its international book exchange program to the . The centralization of copyright offices,
into the in 1859 ended the Library's thirteen year role as a depository of all copyrighted books and pamphlets. 's political appointment of as Librarian of Congress in 1861 further weakened the
Library; Stephenson's focus was on non-library affairs, including service as a volunteer at the battles of and during the . By the conclusion of the war, the Library of Congress had a staff of
seven for a collection of eighty thousand volumes. [6] John Silva Meehan James A. Pearce [6] Department of the Interior Department of State United States Patent Office Abraham Lincoln John
G. Stephenson aide-de-camp Chancellorsville Gettysburg American Civil War [6] [] edit Spofford's expansion (1865 1897) The Library of Congress inside the U.S. Capitol Building c. 1890 The
Library of Congress reasserted itself during the latter half of the 19th century under Librarian , who directed the Library from 1865 to 1897. Aided by an overall expansion of the federal
government and a favorable political climate, Spofford built broad bipartisan support for the Library as a national library and a legislative resource, began comprehensively collecting and , and
led the construction of a new building to house the Library, and transformed the Librarian of Congress position into one of strength and independence. Between 1865 and 1870, Congress
appropriated funds for the construction of the , placed all copyright registration and deposit activities under the Library's control, and restored the Library's international book exchange. The
Library also acquired the vast libraries of both the Smithsonian and historian , strengthening its scientific and Americana collections significantly. By 1876, the Library of Congress had 300,000
volumes and was tied with as the nation's largest library. When the Library moved from the Capitol building to its new headquarters in 1897, it had over 840,000 volumes, 40% of which had
been acquired through copyright deposit. Ainsworth Rand Spofford Americana American literature [6] Thomas Jefferson Building Peter Force Boston Public Library [6] Some of the Library of
Congress" holdings awaiting shelving inside the newly opened Thomas Jefferson Building A year before the Library's move to its new location, the Joint Library Committee held a session of
hearings to assess the condition of the Library and plan for its future growth and possible reorganization. Spofford and six experts sent by the , including future Librarian of Congress and of the
, testified before the committee that the Library should continue its expansion towards becoming a true national library. Based on the hearings and with the assistance of Senators of Vermont
and of Indiana, Congress more than doubled the Library's staff from 42 to 108 and established new administrative units for all aspects of the Library's collection. Congress also strengthened the
office of Librarian of Congress to govern the Library and make staff appointments, as well as requiring Senate approval for presidential appointees to the position. American Library Association
Herbert Putnam Melvil Dewey New York State Library [6] Justin Morrill Daniel Voorhees [6] [] edit Post-reorganization (1897 1939) Main Library of Congress building at the start of the 20th
century The Library of Congress, spurred by the 1897 reorganization, began to grow and develop more rapidly. Spofford's successor , though only in office for two years, overhauled the
Library's bureaucracy, used his connections as a former diplomat to acquire more materials from around the world, and established the Library's first assistance programs for the and physically
disabled. Young's successor held the office for forty years from 1899 to 1939, entering into the position two years before the Library became the first in the United States to hold one million
volumes. Putnam focused his efforts on making the Library more accessible and useful for the public and for other libraries. He instituted the interlibrary loan service, transforming the Library of
Congress into what he referred to as a "library of last resort". Putnam also expanded Library access to "scientific investigators and duly qualified individuals" and began publishing primary
sources for the benefit of scholars. John Russell Young blind [6] Herbert Putnam [6] [9] [6] Putnam's tenure also saw increasing diversity in the Library's acquisitions. In 1903 he persuaded
President to transfer by executive order the papers of the from the State Department to the Library of Congress. Putnam expanded foreign acquisitions as well, including the 1904 purchase of a
four-thousand volume library of , the 1906 purchase of G. V. Yudin's eighty-thousand volume Russian library, the 1908 Schatz collection of early , and the early 1930s purchase of the Russian
Imperial Collection, consisting of 2,600 volumes from the library of the on a variety of topics. Collections of and and works were also acquired. Congress even took the initiative to acquire
materials for the Library in one occasion, when in 1929 Congressman of Mississippi successfully proposed the $1.5 million purchase of 's collection of , including one of four remaining perfect
vellum copies of the . Theodore Roosevelt Founding Fathers Indica opera librettos Romanov family Hebraica Chinese Japanese [6] Ross Collins Otto Vollbehr incunabula Gutenberg Bible [6] The
display of the in the Library of Congress Gutenberg Bible In 1914 Putnam established the as a separative administrative unit of the Library. Based in the 's philosophy of science as a
problem-solver, and modeled after successful research branches of state legislatures, the LRS would provide informed answers to Congressional research inquiries on almost any topic. In 1925
Congress passed an act allowing the Library of Congress to establish a trust fund board to accept donations and endowments, giving the Library a role as a patron of the arts. The Library
received the donations and endowments of prominent individuals such as , and . donated five to the Library and 's donations paid for a within the Library of Congress building and the
establishment of an for the Music Division. A number of chairs and consultantships were established from the donations, the most well-known of which is the . Legislative Reference Service
Progressive era [6] John D. Rockefeller James B. Wilbur Archer M. Huntington Gertrude Clarke Whittall Stradivarius violins Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge concert hall honorarium Poet Laureate
Consultant [6] The Library's expansion eventually filled the Library's Main Building despite shelving expansions in 1910 and 1927, forcing the Library to expand into a new structure. Congress
acquired nearby land in 1928 and approved construction of the Annex Building (later the John Adams Building) in 1930. Although delayed during the years, it was completed in 1938 and
opened to the public in 1939. Depression [6] [] edit Modem history (1939 )