Click to enlarge (Central European Telecom Services) is one of the leading providers of Teleport & Satellite Services worldwide. The CETel services from its Teleport facilities close to Bonn,
Central Germany and Hanover, North Germany and from several gateways and Teleports of its national and international partners comprise corporate VSAT networks, provision of satellite
capacity, up- and downlink services and fibre connections, operation, service & maintenance of satellite networks, broadband Intemet via satellite and consulting. Teleport & Satellite Services
CETel We are operational on several satellites (Ku-Band and C-Band) and more on request. Our services comprise Satellites and terrestrial fibre networks connection to meet the demand from
North and South America through Africa and Middle East up to the Asia Pacific region an area representing the world's most rapidly expanding telecommunications market. can easily reach
satellites which are located between 70 West and 78East. CETel strength and reliable services to provide satellite connections between worldwide facilities and offices for industrial companies,
construction areas, production platforms and oil and gas rigs for construction, oil and gas companies, governmental organisations such as embassies or universities are based on close
partnerships with strong and trustful partners worldwide. provides comprehensive satellite and fibre transmission services to Telephone Network Carrier, Internet Service Provider and
Telecommunication Companies worldwideThe customers will get a high quality and cost effective solution tailored exactly to their requirements and needs. CETel'sCETel. is cooperating with
several satellite operators, telephone network cartier, major TIER-1 IP backbone provider and Field Service Providers worldwide. Therefore, CETel is able to offer End-to-End broadband
communication solution as a complete package. Major partners and customers include Arabsat, Intelsat, Eutelsat, , Deutsche Telecom, T-Systems, British Telecom, Orange, Siemens, Reach and
many more.CETelIntersputnik gateways and Teleports of its national and international partners identifies appropriate networks and satellite capacity and makes it directly available to the
end-user, along with Teleport facilities and Gateways. Teleport & Satellite Services: operates from its own Teleport facilities in Central and Northern German and in addition fromCETelall over
the world.CeTel CETel's