Boca Paila, Quintana Roo: Cabafias Las Conchita On the way to Cancun with a plane full of graduating high school seniors, we felt as out of place as Yanni fans at a Limp Bizkit concert.
Fortunately our final destination was not one of the mega-resorts in Cancun where the high schoolers were going.... () more by Deborah Shepard-McCague 0 Mexico City: Is It Safe? As the
bus pulled into the Terminal del Norte, we made our final preparations for Mexico City. "Weapons on auto?" I said. "Check," said my wife Nancy. "Camouflage paint?" "Check, dad," said Hannah,
my 10-year-old, putting a last black streak on her cheek. "Money belts secured?" "Check," I answered myself. With that, the bus ground to a halt and in a moment we were standing on the
tarmac at the Terminal del Norte in the gathering darkness..... () by [I Huatulco: Boat Cruise Warning If you're planning a boat cruise in Huatulco, make sure you get ALL the details before
handing over the pesos. This obvious, though often overlooked guideline is likely true for any resort in Mexico, but we learned the hard way in Huatulco... () by more Jim Jamieson 0 The
Copper Canyon : Cheap & Easy (Trip Report) .... At the border, we received verbal assurance from the bus driver that he would wait for us as we did the paperwork. We came back outside to
find our packs on the ground, no bus. On the bus we had left two small bags of relative importance. ALWAYS STAY WITH ALL YOUR BELONGINGS... () byWe took the bus from El Paso across
the border to Juarez more Sheri Lynn O Hotels & Restaurants between Oaxaca and Puerto Angel There are now decent hotels and restaurants between Oaxaca and Puerto Angel. Generally
what you want to do when you are on the road from Oaxaca to the coast is GET TO THE COAST. But, should circumstances arise, flat tires, late starts, etc. there are a couple of options for
places to stay that are worth considering... () by more Eric Mindling Oi Mexico in the Midwest . Of course Mexico was always in the Southwest: a disgruntled hombre in a cantina in Hermosillo
made that clear to me 30 years ago when it looked like the situation following the Alamo was going to be my fault solamente. But now - right here in my native Iowa, where everyone was
always an 'merican right back to when God invented the world (circa 1848), everyone is not an 'merican anymore. The People's Guide to Mexico can now be a handy reference for life here

in the heartland... () byMexico is not only in Mexico more Tom Gibbs Eric in Oaxaca I first came to Oaxaca eight years ago as a wide eyed student of pottery and Spanish while working on
my B.A. at Humboldt State U. in California. I didn't know where the heck Oaxaca was nor could I pronounce it (wah-HA-ka), but didn't care I knew it was in Mexico, I knew I hadn't been there.
Iwas doing studio art, and having just recently muddied my hands for the first time in the ceramics studio, I was an avid and fervant convert to the clayway. I have always been partial to that
which is raw, basic, utilitarian and beautiful for it. Pottery hit that place in me immediately. I went to Oaxaca ignorant of what I would find, only vaguely aware that there was some pottery
there. So I designed my project around that. I proposed to look at a potter, how she lived in breif, and how she made a pot.... () by more Eric Mindling Ol There Is Another Side To Chiapas! I
stumbled into your site almost by accident. I'd like to say the presentation and easiness is surprising and welcoming. The content, though, I found to be interesting yet offensive in ways. In
particular Luis Barton's impression of our area. It leads readers to believe that Chiapas and rural Mexico are highly dangerous, unhealthy and precarious areas, unsuitable for living let alone
traveling. I don't mean to say that the Mexico described by Barton is nonexistent. Yet, I do feel the need to point out that there also IS another Mexico... () Letter from more Robert
Rivas-Bastedas O San Cristobal de las Casas: What About Living There? . The city is truly a jewel. It's peaceful and offers all modern conveniences. It's relatively well connected and will be
even more in the near future with two new roads under construction (Tuxtla-San Cristobal and Tuxtla-Mexico City)..... There are plenty of schools. In particular there is a grade school that
warmly welcomes foreign children. Middle and upper education is offered through the government education system and at least a dozen private institutions. San Cristobal has historically been
an educational and cultural center byLiving in San Cristobal is a great experience() more Robert Rivas-Bastedas CiWhy are Carl and Lorena Living in Ajijic? After reading your book, it is
obvious that you are a true expert on expatriate living in Mexico. From that vantage point, it comes as a minor surprise that you live in Ajijic, But, I respect your perspective on living in Mexico,
so my question is: In your opinion, is the Lakeside area the best locale for expatriates who are not averse to immersion in an authentic Mexican cultural experience? Oi Cuba For several years
my wife and I had been talking about wanting to visit Cuba before the end of Castro's regime. She was particularly interested in experiencing Socialist Cuba now -- before the inevitable
changes that will follow Castro's demise (he's 73 and won't last forever). However, I was somewhat leery of the idea.... () by more Peter Ovisiting San Miguel de Allende I finally walked into
my boss and said i need a two month leave. i am heading down to San Miguel to take spanish and art and have no place to stay as yet....also, i was thinking i really really need to mellow out
and maybe i'd find a yoga retreat somewhere down ....i want to e-mail people at the cyber cafe kind of places... () more DlHistory as Commodity, in San Miguel de Allende Imagine my
fascination with the half-millennium of New World history laid like a blanket over the eons of lost civilizations that constitute the past of the cities and hamlets of the central Mexican plateau. In
1981, many of the elderly residents of San Miguel de AllendeCs thermal-watered outskirts spoke only Otomi, and history and mystery continue to sell Mexico to tourists... () more bySareda
Milosz ClAconchi Hotsprings . There is an old sign pointing out the dirt road, it is one block north of the sign pointing out the church on the main highway in Aconchi, closer to the north end of
town. The dirt road goes off to the west. About 4 miles down this road you get to the beautiful & well-maintained hot springs....Once you are in Aconchi, there is a dirt road that is very
passable (more) by Patt Riese ClOaxaca Handbook Well, my hunger has finally been satisfied. In the Oaxaca Handbook. Bruce Whipperman offers a complete menu of not just the valley of
Oaxaca, but the entire state, Whipperman has a special interest in outdoor activities and ecological tourism. He emphasizes hiking in Oaxaca(s national parks and other natural attractions. He
enthusiastically writes of people working to improve the ecology of the places where they live.... (Most guidebooks on Mexico devote 10, maybe 20 pages to Oaxaca... ICve always been left
hungry for more.... more by P.G. Meier CBelize Retirement Guide: How to Live in a Tropical Paradise on $450 a Month from California to the Central American country of Belize. You can
probably guess the rest: Fleeing the land of smog and gridlock, they were soon hiding out on the beach, lapping up the sunshine, tropical fruits and seafood, living like royalty on a peasant's
budget... ()Sometime in the 1980's, Bill and Claire Gray pulled the plug and escaped more review by Carl Franz