[] edit History Designed by architect Kenneth M. Murchison in the , the and terminal buildings were constructed in 1907 as the Terminal Complex. The terminal building is listed on the State
Register and the (added in 1973 as #73001102). Beaux-Arts style rail ferry Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad National Register of Historic Places [1] The large main , with its floral
and motifs in tiled stained glass by set atop bands of pale cement, is generally considered one of the finest in the U.S. aesthetically. The terminal exterior extends to over four stories and has a
distinguished copper-clad fa ade with omate detailing. Its single-story base is constructed of rusticated Indiana limestone. A grand double stair with decorative cast-iron railings within the main
waiting room provides an entrance to the upper-level ferry concourse. waiting room Greek Revival Louis Comfort Tiffany The terminal is considered a milestone in American transportation
development, combining rail, ferry, tram (later, bus; even later, bus on one side and light-rail on the other), and pedestrian facilities in one of the most innovatively designed and engineered
structures in the nation. Hoboken Terminal was also one of the first stations in the world to employ the Bush-type , which quickly became ubiquitous with station design. train shed Hoboken
Terminal, like Hoboken itself, is a place of "firsts". One year before his death, was at the controls for the first departure, in 1930, of a regular-service from Hoboken Terminal to . The first
installation of central in a public space was at Hoboken Terminal, as was the first non-experimental use of . Thomas Edison electrified train Montclair, New Jersey air-conditioning mobile phones
[2] The station is unusual for a modern major commuter railroad terminal in that it still makes use of low-level platforms, which require passengers to make use of stairs on the train to board
and disembark. The station has been used for film shoots, including , ,, and 's video for his 1996 single "". Funny Girl Once Upon a Time in America Three Days of the Condor The Station Agent
Eric Clapton Change the World A 225-foot (69 m) clock tower was originally built with the terminal over a century ago, but was dismantled in the early 1950s due to structural damage and
deterioration from weather damage. A new clock tower, replicating the original, was constructed during the terminal's centennial year of 2007 and was fully erect that November. The replica
tower has four foot high copper letters spelling out "LACKAWANNA", which are lit at night. [] edit Services Hoboken is served by the most rail routes in the entire New Jersey Transit system,
including light rail. [] edit New Jersey Transit commuter rail