Answers to Common Job Interview Questions - Part II Have you got any questions? Usually asked at the end of the interview Tactics to answer this question: Do not state DnoL] because
they have already answered them, because this can sound weak, or that you are not bothered making the effort. Make sure that you have prepared a list of possible questions, BEFORE you go
to the interview. To prepare for this question, you will need to undertake some general research on the organisation. For a list of possible questions to ask, read our article Questions to Ask
During a Job Interview What are some of the things that bothered you about your last job? This question is usually asked to identify whether some of the perceived problems of job you are
applying for, are going to be a problem for you. Tactics to answer this question: DonCit be negative about your last or present job Identify only really minor issues Example; "For the most
part I really liked and enjoyed by job, but like any job there are the really minor irritations that bother and annoy you occasionally. For example in my last job, I sometimes got frustrated by the
lack of response via email from some members of staff. Tell me about a task in your last job that you really enjoyed? Although on the surface this appears to be an easy question, if answered
poorly you might be giving the interviewer an opportunity to screen you out. Tactics to answer this question: Determine what the major features are of the job you are applying for, so you talk
about a task that is most relevant to this new job. Concentrate on the most important feature of your last job. Example: (Appropriate responses if applying for a position as a Project Manager)
 "Lreally enjoyed the challenges relating to project management, from meeting strict budget requirements, through to meeting deadlines. I really excelled in these tasks and enjoyed juggling
multiple demands on a daily basis". What do you know about our organisation? This will determine how much research you have undertaken and your keenness (or not) relating to the
organisation and job. Tactics to answer the question: If you canCit answer this one, then you should not have gone to the interview in the first place. It is essential that you prepare for this
question and learn as much as you can about the organisation before you go to interview. DonCit divulge your knowledge relating to any dirt, or major negatives you know about the
organisation. Provide a brief and concise overview of your findings, to show what the organisation does, its size and key objectives