Mother's Day was originally started after the Civil War, as a protest to the carnage of that war, by women who had lost their sons. Here is the original Mother's Day Proclamation from 1870.
Arise, then, women of this day! Arise all women who have hearts, whether our baptism be that of water or of fears! Say firmly: "We will not have great questions decided by irrelevant agencies
Our husbands shall not come to us, reeking with carnage, for caresses and applause. Our sons shall not be taken from us to unleam all that we have been able to teach them of charity, mercy
and patience. We women of one country will be too tender of those of another country to allow our sons to be trained to injure theirs. From the bosom of the devastated earth a voice goes up
with our own, It says "Disarm, Disarm! The sword of murder is not the balance of justice." Blood does not wipe our dishonor nor violence indicate possession. As men have often forsaken the
plow and the anvil at the summons of war, let women now leave all that may be left of home for a great and earnest day of counsel. Let them meet first, as women, to bewail and
commemorate the dead. Let them then solemnly take counsel with each other as to the means whereby the great human family can live in peace, each bearing after their own time the sacred
impress, not of Caesar, but of God. In the name of womanhood and of humanity, I earnestly ask that a general congress of women without limit of nationality may be appointed and held at
some place deemed most convenient and at the earliest period consistent with its objects, to promote the alliance of the different nationalities, the amicable settlement of international
questions, the great and general interests of peace. Julia Ward Howe Boston 1870 Mother of All, hear our prayer this day for the protection and blessing of all mothers! You who hold the seed
in warmth and darkness till it knows to seek the sunlight; You whose winds carry the rain across the vast, arching sky... spilling it down on the thirsting scil...Read a Mothers Day Blessing.