Common Questions & Answers There are many interesting and one-of-a-kind items for sale at gem, mineral, fossil and jewelry shows. There are items available in each of the above
categories that will interest the novice collector to those items that will interest the most discriminating collector. You will find price ranges from less than one dollar to those items priced in the
thousands of dollars. All types of gemstones, both mounted and un-mounted are available. What types of items are available for purchase at gem, mineral, fossil and jewelry shows?
Natural,"from the Earth", Mineral specimens in rough form for the lapidary hobbist, and in high quality display specimens in small micro size, and large cabinet size and Museum size. These will
include gamets, gold, diamonds, rubies, quartz, pyrite, florescent minerals and many more. Authentic Fossil specimens of all types, sizes, and price ranges for the beginning collector, serious
collector, or Museum curator. Fossil specimens include dinosaurs, trilobites, shark teeth, mammoth tusks, fish, plants,amber, and many more.. High-end one-of-a-kind jewelry is available in set
mounts or loose, to design your own creations. Jewelry selections will include beads,diamonds, emeralds, rubies, opals, saphires other semi-precious stones at a fraction of the cost found at
traditional jewelry stores. Absolutely. Please check under "show info for dates and times.Is the show open to the public? The dealers in our show have excellent reputations and conform to
very high standards. Any item found on any table that is misrepresented is immediately removed from the sales table.How do I know that the dealers and their products are as they represent
them to be? You sure can. Our dealers are experts in their fields and will certainly try to help you.Can I bring a gemstone, mineral or fossil to the show to be identified? Yes, several dealers
are experts at jewelry repair and will be glad to give you an estimate on the cost of the repair and may be able to repair your jewelry while you shop.Are there dealers in the show who can
repair my jewelry? Most dealers are set up to take cash, checks, charges and debit cards. Please ask the particular dealer that you are buying from what payment methods he/she
accepts.What payment options are there available for my purchases? Absolutely. The only requirement for large groups is that adults must accompany children and maintain control over their
groups while visiting our show. Any group that behaves poorly will be asked to immediately leave the building.Can large groups, such as school groups or scouts, be accommodated at the
show? YES!Are the aisles wide enough to accommodate wheelchairs and strollers? No. Because of the high volume of customers in the show, we ask that pets remain at home or either in your
vehicle while you are shopping. Are pets allowed in the show?