What is Energy Star? Horror stories abound in the construction industry. Styles, fads, products and builders, come and go. But for over 50 years, the Russell family has been producing quality
constructed homes under the same name! We treat our customers with honor and respect as we wish to be treated. Our homes are built as though they are for our own family. Instead of a
sore subject, past customers use the Russell name as a positive and recognizable selling feature of quality. We know no other builder who can make such claims. As the saying goes, "The proof
is in the puting." So ask others. Talk to folks who have "put" their trust in us and live in one of our homes. Talk to local building department officials. Ask suppliers and subcontractors about us
Know that our design, experience, understanding, and values coupled with the best local craftsmen and fine products are going to produce a home that you will be proud to own. Warranties are
only as good as the people behind them. Our warranty is the best in the industry because our service is second to none! We know that excellent service produces pleased homeowner's and
future business. During construction, we welcome your review and comments on your home. Open communication is critical to customer satisfaction. Before closing, you will have had at least
two accompanied "walk through" with our construction or service personnel, pointing out any concems you may have for us to address. After closing, we provide continued support and service
once you've moved in. Of course we are available 7 days a week in the unlikely event that should you have an emergency. Some builders mark up their prices so that they can negotiate down
to the number that they require. Others will charge at whatever the market will bear. Still others will undercut prices on certain homes because of a cash flow crunch. These methods create
doubt and misgivings thereby creating questionable pricing for all neighboring homes. Your home's price is base on known costs and an industry norm of return for investment. You won't have
to worry about your home's value being maintained as the others are sold around it. We maintain the standards and valuations throughout entire subdivision. We fairly price our properties and
value our customers knowing that we wish to build their next home as well. As our subdivisions are built out the value and prices are confirmed over and over. Your home will fairly appraise for
the purchase price. Not only will you have a knowledgeable and highly experienced salesperson dedicated to working with you, everyone at R. Russell Builders is available should you have a
specialized question or concern. There are no irritating answering machines with endless loops here. When you call, you'll receive a pleasant personal response. This is a small company. You'll
meet everyone on staff during your experience here and you'll feel comfortable right away. You'll also find our vendors and their showrooms to be very professional and helpful should you need
to visit them. When you contract to have a home constructed, you'll will be given a set of plans to review and approve before any construction begins. All of your selections, colors and costs will
be itemized, clearly and concisely. You won't have to "hope" that your builder "gets it right." Your happiness and peace of mind makes our job easier as well. Over 50 years in business under
the same name! We have very low turnover with our employees and our subcontractors. We strive to build an environment which nurtures accountability not only in the quality of our work but
also in the way the work is conducted. We a not a low-bid builder. The same people working on your home may have been working with us for as long as 20 years. The contractors who helped
construct your home are continually working with us. We know our people and they know us in mutual respect. We look to each other for future business. Because of this consistency, you can
visit our models, spec homes or a friend whom already lives in an R. Russell home and know how your home is going to turn out. Honesty and Integrity. Our Properties are Priced Right. An
Enjoyable Experience.