Current employment opportunities at The Becket Fund:  New Becket Fund Fellowship The Becket Fund is now accepting applications from practicing attorneys for a Becket Fund Fellowship.
The Fellowship is a two year appointment supported by the Avi Chai Foundation. The Becket Fund Fellow will work initially from our DC offices, with a possible opportunity to work from New
York City during the latter part of the Fellowship. The focus of the Fellowship is to engage in litigation and scholarship regarding Blaine Amendments, originally anti-Catholic state constitutional
amendments that are now discriminatorily applied to prevent religious institutions of all sorts from participating equally in public benefits. Applicants should have experience in both litigation
and scholarship, and a demonstrated commitment to the Becket Funds mission of protecting religious liberty for people of all faiths. Applicants should send a resume, cover letter and writing
sample to the attention of Benjamin Kemmy at.. bkemmy@becketfund.org Visiting students at The Becket Fund: Please note that all internship positions are unpaid. Becket Fund
Intemship Program We host law and undergraduate intems at our office in in the summer internships, The Becket Fund conducts interviews in January and February, with decisions made
around March. Please note that applications from 1L law students are accepted starting December 1. For internships throughout the academic year, applications are accepted on a rolling basis.
@, Washington DC and regular academic terms.To apply for an internship, send a cover letter, resume, transcript, list of references, and writing sample to Lori Windham via mail ( 1350
Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 605, Washington, 20036) oremail (see below). For summer International Program Intemships (academic year) The International Internship Program is
conducted during the academic year for undergraduate, graduate, or law students interested in the areas of international law, comparative law, European law, education, and political science.
Intemational Program Interns are individually responsible for discreet research, writing, or public education projects, while receiving direction and supervision. Internships are both an
opportunity to lear and to serve. There are two positions available per academic term of Fall (September - December) and Spring (January - May). Interns may work part or full time, and
may be able to earn academic credit for their work. Candidates should possess a strong commitment to The Becket Fund's mission to advance human rights and religious freedom for people of
all faiths; excellent writing skills; a sense of initiative; creativity; and integrity. Interested applicants should send: a cover letter expressing area(s), topic(s), and/or project(s) of interest,
attendant qualifications, and dates of availability; a resume including references; and an unpublished writing sample of any length on an any academic or legal topic to internships AT
becketfund DOT org. Applications for the Becket Fund Intemship Program and International Program Internships are considered on a rolling basis. Unfortunately, any materials sent cannot be
retumed to sender. If your application is accepted for consideration, we will contact you about an interview no later than three weeks after receipt of your application. Any inquiries may also be
directed to the above email address