Circumventing roadblocks to healthy weight loss Why do some weight loss programs fail? Diets, especially fad diets or quick-fix pills and plans, often set you up for failure because: Diets
that dont allow certain types of food (carbs, fat, sugar) in moderation are simply not practical, not to mention unhealthy ~ eliminating entire food groups doesn't allow for a healthy,
well-rounded diet.You feel deprived. There's actually a second component to healthy weight loss: exercise. Often your body adjusts to your new way of eating, and its only with increased
physical activity that the pounds will continue to melt away. You plateau after losing a few pounds. Diets that severely cut calories, restrict certain foods, or rely on ready-made meals might
work in the short term. However, once you meet your weight loss goal, you have no means of lifelong, healthy diet maintenance, and the pounds come quickly come backYou lose weight, but
can't keep it off. . Just because you gave in to temptation and overindulged, doesnt mean all your hard work goes down the drain. Healthy eating is about the big picture - an occasional
splurge won't kill your efforts. And again, diets that are too restrictive are conducive to cheating - when you feel deprived, its easy to fall off the wagon. You break your diet and feel too
discouraged to try again . Special shakes, meals, and programs may be cost-prohibitive.You lose money faster than you lose weight Without some practical, healthy diet strategies, you may
feel lost when dining out or attending events like cocktail parties or weddings. If the food served isnt on your specific diet plan, what can you do?You feel isolated and unable to enjoy social
situations revolving around food. Restricting your caloric intake slows down your metabolism - another reason why starvation or fasting diets are counterproductive.After your diet, you seem
to put on weight more quickly. Diet companies make a lot of grandiose promises, and most are simply not realistic. Unfortunately, losing weight is not easy, and anyone who makes it seem
that way is doing you a disservice. Dont get discouraged by setting unrealistic goals!The person on the commercial lost 30 Ibs in 2 months - and you havent. Why do some weight loss
programs succeed? While theres no one size fits all solution to lifelong, healthy weight loss, try these tips: -Short-term goals, like wanting to fit into a bikini for the summer, usually dot
work as well as goals like wanting to feel more confident or become healthier for your childrens sakes. Keep your focus: when frustration and temptation strike, concentrate on the many
benefits you'll reap from being healthier and leaner.Stay motivated Social support means a lot. Programs like Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers use group support to impact weight loss and
lifelong healthy eating. Seek out support, whether in the form of family, friends, or a support group, so that you can get the encouragement you need.Find a cheering section . Experiment until
you find a good, long-term plan that helps you lose the weight and maintain that loss in a way that works for you. If you cut out just 100 calories a day you would lose 10 pounds in a year.
Remember one 12 0 can of a popular soda contains 150 calories. Commit to a plan and stick to it Emotional and social components of healthy weight loss Food isnt just used to satisty
hunger ~ it is also a common part of social interactions and a means of comfort and stress relief. How we eat is also partially dictated by how we were raised - clean your plate - there's
children starving in Africa - and how the people around us eat. If your friends and relatives start packing on the pounds, you are more likely to do so as well. What's a healthy dieter to do?
First, consider how and when you eat. Do you only eat when you are hungry, or do you reach for a snack while watching TV? Do you eat when you're stressed or bored? To reward yourself?
Also pay attention to how much sleep you are getting lack of sleep has been shown to have a direct link to hunger and overeating. - Recognizing your emotional triggers can help make it
easier for you to make changes. Once you realize your own personal challenges to weight loss, you can work towards gradually changing the habits and mental attitudes that have sabotaged
your efforts in the past. Is stress and anxiety contributing to your weight gain? Stress eating is a common problem. Instead of self-medicating with food, try alternative means of stress relief.
Read and for tips and suggestions. Coping With Stress How to Stop Worrying Mindful eating helps healthy weight loss Paying attention to what you eat, savoring each bite, and choosing foods
that are both nourishing and enjoyable helps healthy weight loss and maintenance. Plus, when our minds are tuned out during mealtime, the digestive process may be 30% to 40% less
effective. This can contribute to digestive distress, such as gas, bloating and bowel irregularities. Mindful Eating tips for Healthy Weight Loss Pay attention while you are eating. Be aware of
your environment; eat slowly, enjoying each bite - savor the smells and textures of your food. If your mind wanders, just gently remind yourself to return to focusing on your food and how it
tastes and feels in your mouth. Avoid distractions while eating. Try not to eat while working, watching TV, reading or using a computer. Try mixing things up to force yourself to focus on the
experience of eating - try using chopsticks rather than a fork, or use your utensils with your non-dominant hand Chew your food thoroughly. Stop eating before you are stuffed. Avoid the
temptation to clean your plate. Yes, there are children starving in Africa, but you packing on the pounds won't help them! If eating alone, leave the table as soon as you are full. The longer
you sit at the table, the more you will eat. Skip the all-you-can eat buffets. Too many choices at once leads to over consumption Eat from small plates, bowls and cups. This will make your
portions appear larger. Dont eat out of large bags or boxes. Buy single serving snacks or create your own small portions in plastic bags or containers. Weight Loss Myths: Fact or Fiction?
MYTH: If you raise your metabolism, you can eat more and still lose weight! FACT: Your metabolism controls how fast and in what way you burn the calories you consume. We burn calories
throughout the day in many ways ~ from breathing to walking the dog. Despite the aims of the diet pill manufacturers, you have very little ability to change your metabolism. But you can help
your body burn more calories by incorporating lifestyle changes, like more exercise. MYTH: Carbs are evil! FACT: The popularity of low-carb diets has made people crazy about counting
carbs, but this is far less important than counting calories. The long-term effects of high-fat, high-protein diets are still unknown, but we do know that a diet high in good carbohydrates (which
are lower in calories than fat) coming from whole grains, fruits, and veggies, provides adequate nutrition and can be ideal for weight loss. MYTH: Fasting is a great way to lose weight. FACT:
Hollywood starlets swear by fasts or cleanses where they eat practically nothing for days. Starving yourself can help you drop a few pounds fast, but chances are you will regain that weight
as soon as you start eating again, not to mention the numerous negative health effects a starvation diet can cause (gallstones, fainting, mainutrition....just to name a few.) Also, losing a lot of
weight rapidly usually means you're losing muscle and water rather than fat. MYTH: To lose weight, eat fat-free foods. FACT: Fat-free does not mean calorie-free. Many fat-free versions of
your favorite products have the same or more calories as the originals, because sugar has to be added to replace the flavor that is lost when the fat is taken out. Remember that you need to
watch your caloric intake in order to lose weight, so keep track of the foods you are eating, fat-free or otherwise. Fat: Friend or Foe? Along with benefiting nearly every organ in the body, fat
also fills you up better than carbohydrates. Good fats come from whole, natural, unprocessed sources. Fats turn bad when they are processed, or damaged by light, heat, oxygen or chemicals.
Eating reasonable amounts of natural fats coming from foods like avocados, nuts, and seeds may help you lose more weight by getting you fuller faster and providing the healthy fats your body
needs.To learn more read . Healthy Fats MYTH: Sugar-free foods and artificial sweeteners are great for avoiding weight gain. FACT: True, diet soft drinks and artificially-sweetened yogurts, ice
cream and other snacks are often lower in calories. But sugar substitutes may interfere with your body's natural regulation system and result in your overindulging in other sweet foods and
beverages. Tips for Healthy Weight Loss your Way Lifestyle and planning tips . Exercise is a dieters best friend! It not only burns calories, but can actually improve your resting metabolism.
No time for a long workout? Research shows that three 10-minute spurts of exercise per day are just as good as one 30-minute workout. See .Get plenty of exercise Exercise Guide for Exercise
Haters . People with improper sleep have a much higher risk of obesity Exhaustion can make you feel hungrier, and impair your judgment. Aim for around 8 hours of good sleep a night.Get
proper sleep See Tips for a Good Nights Sleep . You actually burn less calories watching television than you do sleeping! If you simply cant miss your favorite shows, getting a little workout in
while watching - do easy exercises like squats, sit-ups, jogging in place, or using resistance bands or hand weights.Turn off the TV Create a shopping list to stick to, and store tempting foods
in cabinets or drawers out of your sight.Make sure to shop when you are not hungry. You will more inclined to eat in moderation if you have thought out healthy meals in advance, and eat
when are truly hungry.Plan your meals and snacks ahead of time. . Losing weight too fast can take a toll on your nervous system, making you feel sluggish, drained, and sick. When you drop
a lot of weight quickly, you're actually losing mostly water and muscle rather than fat. Aim to lose 1-2 Ibs a week to ensure healthy weight loss.Lose weight slowly Eating and drinking tips

The high water and fiber content in many fruits and vegetables make them great candidates for healthy snacking and incorporation into meals. Try adding veggies to your favorite main courses
(made from lean meats and whole grains) to make your dish go further. In addition, the vitamins and nutrients in fruits and vegetables can help your overall health and vitality.Focus on fruits
and veggies Protein keeps you full longer than carbohydrates. It also takes more energy to metabolize protein than carbohydrates, so you burn more calories after eating it.Eat more protein.
Fiber makes you feel fuller faster, so its a great idea to choose foods that are packing a good fiber punch. Fiber will also help digestion, allowing you to process what you eat in a healthier
way.Fill up on fiber . Foods that allow you to eat larger portion sizes with lower calories are considered low density. These foods (including many fruits and vegetables) tend to contain more
water and fiber. Try starting your meal with a low-density salad or soup (just watch the dressings and sodium) to help fill you up, so you will eat less of your entree.Choose low density foods
 Not drinking enough water makes your body hold on to the water it has - resulting in extra water weight. Thirst can also be confused with hunger, so by drinking water, you may avoid
consuming extra calories.Drink lots of water. Soda: The Secret Diet Sabotager According to The Center for Science in the Public Interest, soft drinks are the single biggest source of calories in
the American diet, providing about 7 percent of calories. One can of soda pop contains between 10-12 teaspoons of sugar and around 150 calories, so a few soft drinks can quickly add up to a
good portion of your daily calorie intake. Cutting out soft drinks may be an easy way to help you lose some extra weight. Try switching to water with lemon, unsweetened iced tea, or an
occasional spritzer made with a touch of juice (juice contains a lot of calories, so use just a taste) and carbonated water. . Remember this old saying: breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince,
dinner like a pauper. Starting your day with a healthy breakfast can jumpstart your metabolism. Likewise, grazing on healthful snacks like fruits, veggies and protein-packed almonds, and
eating 6 small, healthful meals throughout the day, rather than the standard 3 large ones, can help keep your metabolism going and ward off snack attacks.at early, eat often No matter how
healthy your diet, you need to eat less to lose weight. This means practicing portion control. At restaurants, eat only half your meal and take the rest home. Also watch out for condiments,
dressings, and soft drinks, which are common culprits for hidden calories. For more on healthy choices while dining out, see - yes, its possible.Be extra careful when eating out. Healthy Fast
Food Using a popular weight loss plan to meet your needs While a personalized plan may work better for you in the long run, many people do find success with well-known diet programs such
as Weight Watchers or Jenny Craig. And even if the popular commercial weight loss plans aren't quite your style, some of them may provide the backbone of a program that work for you. Read
for a comparison and analysis of Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig, Volumetric Diet, Slim-Fast, The Zone, Dean Ornish, South Beach and Atkins.does Analysis of Popular Weight Loss Plans To
Leam More: Related Helpguide Articles Healthy Restaurant Eating Healthy Fast Food: Choosing the Right Fats for your Diet Healthy Fats: Food Pyramids & Tips for Healthy Diets Healthy

Eating: Guide to Fast, Delicious Meals Healthy Recipes: Related Links for Healthy Weight Loss Weight loss myths - Debunking myths about food, dieting, and exercise. (National Institute of
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease) Weight loss and nutrition myths Emotional and social components of healthy weight loss - Ways to curb emotional eating from sabotaging your
healthy weight loss efforts. (Mayo Clinic) How to stop emotional eating - Learn the difference between actual hunger and emotionally-driven hunger. (University of Texas) The Eight Traits of
Emotional Hunger - Do you have issues with food? Take this online test and find out! (Psychology Today) Emotional Eating Test Mindful eating for healthy weight loss - Explains the effects of
mindless eating, and offers exercises to help you become a more mindful eater. (Brigham & Womens Hospital) Mastering the mindful meal Tips for healthy weight loss your way - Illustrated
guide to healthy ways to lose weight. (National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion) How to Use Fruits and Vegetables to Help Manage Your Weight - Offers tips for
managing portion sizes at home, and when eating out. (Weight Control Information Network) Just Enough for You: About Portion Sizes - After you've made the commitment to start losing
Weight, set goals that are realistic, specific, and measurable. (Mayo Clinic) Tips for Setting and Meeting Your Weight Loss Goals Suzanne Barston, , and Robert Segal M.A contributed to this
article. Last modified: May 2008. Jeanne Segal, PhD. Sign up for Helpguide's free : monthly newsletter Email:  2001-2007. All rights reserved This site is for information and support; not a
substitute for professional advice.