adjourn 1. To suspend until a later stated time. [<OFr. ] Adjournment v.ajourneradjournmentn.Source: AHD appellate having power to review decisions of lower courts Appellate adjSource:
NMW apportion to distribute proportionately Apportionment v.Source: NMW In the context of the Constitution, apportionment means that each state gets a number appropriate to its
population. For example, Representatives are apportioned among the states, with the most populous getting the greater share. Direct taxes (of which there are none today) were to be charged
to the states in this manner as well. The need for apportionment of taxes, and the reason for it, is difficult for us to imagine today, but there were good reasons for it. The following is an
explanation of the need for the Direct Tax Apportionment clause. It was written by Supreme Court Justice Paterson in (3 US 171 [1796]):Hylton v US The constitution declares, that a
capitation tax is a direct tax; and both in theory and practice, a tax on land is deemed to be a direct tax... The provision was made in favor of the southem states; they possessed a large
number of slaves; they had extensive tracts of territory, thinly settled, and not very productive. A majority of the states had but few slaves, and several of them a limited territory, well settled,
and in a high state of cultivation. The southem states, if no provision had been introduced in the constitution, would have been wholly at the mercy of the other states. Congress in such case,
might tax slaves, at discretion or arbitrarily, and land in every part of the Union, after the same rate or measure: so much a head, in the first instance, and so much an acre, in the second. To
guard them against imposition, in these particulars, was the reason of introducing the clause in the constitution. attainder The loss of all civil rights by a person sentenced for a serious crime.
[< OFF. to convict] Attainder n.attaindre,Source: AHD In the context of the Constitution, a Bill of Attainder is meant to mean a bill that has a negative effect on a single person or group (for
example, a fine or term of imprisonment). Originally, a Bill of Attainder sentenced an individual to death, though this detail is no longer required to have an enactment be ruled a Bill of
Attainder. concur 1. To have the same opinion; agree [<Lat. to meet] Concurrence v.concutrere.concurrencen.Source: AHD A bill of credit is some sort of paper medium by which value is
exchanged between the government and individuals. Money is a bill of credit, but a bill of credit need not be money. An interest-bearing certificate that was issued by Missouri, and usable in the
payment of taxes, was thus ruled to be an unconstitutional bill of credit. Bill of Credit Corruption of Blood was part of ancient English penalty for treason. It was usually part of a Bill of
Attainder, which normally sentenced the accused to death. The corruption of blood would forbid the accused's family from inhereting his property. Such bills and punishments were often
inflicted upon Tories by colonial governments immediately following independence. Corruption of Blood Source: 381 US 437 deprive 1. To take something away from; divest. 2. To keep from
the possession of something. [<Med. Lat. ] Deprive v.deprivareSource: AHD One of the concems of the Framers was that the government prior to that under the Constitution was unable, by
force or persuasion, to quell rebellion or quarrels amongst the states. The government watched in horror as Shay's Rebellion transpired just before the Convention, and some states had very
nearly gone to war with each other over tertitory (such as between Pennsylvania and Connecticut over Wilkes-Barre). One of the main goals of the Convention, then, was to ensure the federal
government had powers to squash rebellion and to smooth tensions between states. Domestic Tranquility Double jeopardy is a term used in law. Double jeopardy is forbidden by the
Constitution. Double jeopardy is what would happen is someone were to be charged with a crime and be found innocent, and then be charged with that crime a second time. For example, if you
are charged with stealing a car, and a jury finds you innocent, you cannot be charged with stealing the car again. Double Jeopardy emolument [ME, fr. L , lit., miller's fee, fr to grind up] : the
product (as salary or fees) of an employment Emolument nemolumentumemolereSource: NMW enumerate 1 : to determine the number of : count 2 : list Enumerate vbSource: NMW excise a
tax on the manufacture, sale, or consumption of goods within a country Excise nSource: NMW ex post facto Formulated, enacted, or operating retroactively. [Med Lat., from what is done
afterwards] Ex post facto adj.Source: AHD In U.S. Constitutional Law, the definition of what is ex post facto is more limited. The first definition of what exactly constitutes an ex post facto law
is found in (3 US 386 [1798]), in the opinion of Justice Chase:Calder v Bull ist. Every law that makes an action done before the passing of the law, and which was innocent when done,
criminal; and punishes such action. 2d. Every law that aggravates a crime, or makes it greater than it was, when committed. 3d. Every law that changes the punishment, and inflicts a greater
punishment, than the law annexed to the crime, when committed. 4th. Every law that alters the legal rules of evidence, and receives less, or different, testimony, than the law required at the
time of the commission of the offense, in order to convict the offender. habeas corpus A writ issued to bring a party before a court to prevent unlawful restraint. [<Med. Lat., you should have
the body] Habeas Corpus n. LawSource: AHD The basic premise behind habeas corpus is that you cannot be held against your will without just cause. To put it another way, you cannot be
jailed if there are no charges against you. If you are being held, and you demand it, the courts must issue a writ of habeas corpus, which forces those holding you to answer as to why. If there
is no good or compelling reason, the court must set you free. It is important to note that of all the civil liberties we take for granted today as a part of the Bill of Rights, the importance of
habeas corpus is illustrated by the fact that it was the sole liberty thought important enough to be included in the original text of the Constitution. impartial Not partial or biased; unprejudiced,
Impartial adj.Source: AHD Impeachment, in the U.S. and Great Britain, proceeding by a legislature for the removal from office of a public official charged with misconduct in office.
Impeachment comprises both the act of formulating the accusation and the resulting trial of the charges; it is frequently but erroneously taken to mean only the removal from office of an
accused public official. An impeachment trial may result in either an acquittal or in a verdict of guilty. In the latter case the impeached official is removed from office; if the charges warrant such
action, the official is also remanded to the proper authorities for trial before a court. Impeachment Source: FWE