Video Computer System CX2600 "Video Computer System" 1977 Atari's shining star: The Atari 2600 Video Computer System, Model # CX-2600. The Atari 2600 was designed in Grass
Valley, California. The Atari 2600 team consisted of Jay Minor, Steve Mayer, Ron Milner and Joe Decuir. The case design was done by Douglas Hardy and Fredrick Thompson. Originally the
whole idea around the Atari 2600 was to design a new console system that would have a longer sales life then past Atari game consoles. Originally Atari started out selling home game
consoles such as PONG, Super Pong, Stunt Cycle, Video Pinball and others. However their sales life (how long they would sell strong before people grew bored and wanted a new product to
come out) was short lived. So the idea around the Atari 2600 was to design a new system that would have a shelf life of up to 2-3 years. Atari had originally planned to sell a total of 10
games for the Atari 2600. The original game boxes used to be marked 01, 02, 03 for the original intention of selling only 10 different games. Atari included every conceivable form of
flexibility into the console. There were seperate difficult switches for both the left and right player, the console had a selection for both Black & White and Color televisions. The game console
also came packaged with not only a set of joystick controllers, but also a set of paddle controllers giving the customer the ability to purchase nearly any game they wanted and not have to
worry about whether it would work with the console or not. Another interesting feature about the Atari 2600 were its games. Most games came with dozens of different variations of the
game so that customers could try out all different combinations and never grow bored as quickly as simply having one game, one variation to play. The Atari 2600 took ona life of
its own when Atari introduced the first home licensed version of Space Invaders. People couldn't get enough. Thats when Atari realized it could cash in on licensing exclusive rights to sell
home versions of the most popular arcade games. Games such as Space Invaders, Missle Command, Asteroids, and Defender sent sales sky-rocketing because of the close conversion down to
the Atari 2600's graphics capabilities. However it was games like Pac Man that Atari produced that were its downfall. The Atari 2600 version of Pac Man was written by Todd Fry who,
although he was talented Atari 2600 programmer did not like Pac Man and did a sloppy half-effort of porting the game to the Atari 2600. Also he received a 1 Million dollar check for his work
which he stapled a photocopy of it to his office door for all to see. Todd also worked on the Atari Swordquest series and also was putting the finishing touches on an Atari 2600 version of
Xevious (a feat of masterful programming since the game was so complex) when Atari was sold, 2600 Xevious was never finished or released, The Atari 2600 also saw a flood of cheaply
made games from dozens of third party companies looking for an easy and quick "in" to capitalize on the video game craze. This flood of low quality titles cause a flood of unwanted and
overproduced cartridges which noone wanted. In the past people would buy a cartridge without question, now they were reading game reviews and only buying the best rated titles.

Suddenly bargain basement sales of cartridges were being held. People assumed that the "VIDEOGAME FAD" was ending and sales of consoles and accessories began to slump. Terrified
corporate executives with no real knowledge of this new field panicked, funds were pulled, company's began to fold overnight, hundreds of announced games and products suddenly
disappeared never to be heard of again. Atari felt this huge shake-up right up to its parent company Wamer Communications. The Great Video Game Crash had happened and in its wake it
left many companies in bankruptcy, others looking to PC's gamming for revenue and Atari limping into the sunset, its image and ego badly hurt, but unlike other companies it lived on for quite
sometime and so did the Atari 2600, in fact the Atari 2600 was replaced in 1986 by a newer, more modem replacement called the Atari 2600 jr. Even though consoles such as the Sony
Playstation, the new Sega Dreamcast and even older discontinued systems like the Atari Jaguar 64 have power that is 100's of time greater then the Atari 2600. The little VCS that could, even
though its discontinued is still going and is still the worlds most popular Video Game System. Have You Played Atari Today?