[] edit Impact The surprise launch of , coupled with the spectacular failure of the United States' first two launch attempts, shocked the , which responded with a number of early satellite
launches, including , , and . The also led to the creation of the (renamed the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency in 1972): , and, and an increase in U.S. government spending on
scientific research and education. The launch of inspired U.S. writer to coin the term "" in an article about the in the on , . See also: .Sputnik 1 Project Vanguard United States Explorer 1 Project
SCORE Courier 18 Sputnik crisis Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA NASA Sputnik 1 Herb Caen beatnik Beat Generation San Francisco Chronicle April 2 1958 [1] -nik [] edit Early
flights USSR postage stamp depicting Sputnik 1. The caption reads: "The world's first Soviet artificial satellite of the Earth". was launched on , . The satellite was 58 cm (about 23 in) in
diameter and weighed approximately 83.6 kg (about 183 Ib). Each of its elliptical orbits around the Earth took about 96 minutes. Monitoring of the satellite was done by many operators and the
Jodrell Bank Observatory. Sputnik's had previously proven itself more than one month earlier as the world's first in the successful long-range test flight of (with the accomplishment published in
was not visible from but the casing of the , traveling behind it, was. Sputnik 1 October 4 1957 amateur radio [2] [3] R-7 booster ICBM August 21 ). Aviation Week Sputnik 1 Earth R-7 booster
@ was launched on , and carried the first living passenger into orbit, a named . The mission planners did not provide for the safe return of the or its , making Laika the first orbital . This mission
was promptly dubbed "Muttnik" by US humorists. Sputnik 2 November 3 1957 dog Laika spacecraft passenger casualty [4] The first attempt to launch , on , , failed, but the second on
succeeded, and it carried a large array of instruments for research. Its failed, however, making it unable to measure the . Sputnik 3 February 3 1958 May 15 geophysical tape recorder Van Allen
radiation belts ( 1) was launched two years later, on , . It was the first test-flight of the spacecraft that would be used for the first . When reentry was attempted, a bug in the guidance system
pointed the capsule in the wrong direction, so instead of re-entering the atmosphere the satellite moved into a higher orbit. It re-entered the atmosphere on or about September 5, 1962. An
object identified as part of Sputnik 4 was found in a street in in the USA. Sputnik 4 Korabl Sputnik May 15 1960 Vostok human spaceflight Manitowoc, Wisconsin (Korabl Sputnik 2) was
launched on , with the dogs , 40 , 2 and several on board. The spacecraft returned to earth the next day and all animals were recovered safely. Sputnik 5 August 19 1960 Belka and Strelka
mice rats plants (Korabl Sputnik 3) was launched on , 1960 with the dogs , who died on re-entry by an unplanned destructive charge. Sputnik 6 December 1 Pchelka and Mushka (4);
launched February 4, 1961; failed to eject its probe into a Venus trajectory Sputnik 7 Tyazheliy Sputnik (Tyazheliy Sputnik 5); launched February 12, 1961; platform to launch Sputnik 8 Venera
1 (Korabl Sputnik 4) was launched March 9, 1961. The spacecraft carried a dummy cosmonaut, the dog Chemushka, mice, and a guinea pig. The flight lasted for a single orbit, and a successful
recovery was made. Sputnik 9 (Korabl Sputnik 5) was launched March 25, 1961. It carried a dummy cosmonaut and a dog (Zvezdochka), as well as the television system and other scientific
apparatus. After one orbit, a successful recovery was made. This was the final precursor flight before Yuri Gagarin was launched on on April 12, 1961. Sputnik 10 Vostok 1 Later numbers were
applied by Western observers first to cover the first eight and later to denote planetary missions, referring to failures or the 4th stage left in Earth orbit. (The Soviets during this period would
not admit the existence of failures, so Sputnik became the name used by trackers for such objects.) This practice seems to have ceased after , as the Soviets began to use the 'Cosmos' name
to cover such failures. Cosmos satellites de facto Sputnik 25 Venus Missions during the August-September, 1962 : launch window