Rehab For Tennis Elbow: The Super 7 The super 7exercises are an important part of treatment for tennis elbow. They are designed to strengthen the muscles in the forearm and increase
flexibility through stretching. In most cases te these exercises will help relieve elbow pain in about 4 to 6 week Each stretching exercise is held for 15 seconds and repeated 2 or 3 times. This
pattern is repeated 5 times a day. Exercise 1. Stretching the muscles that extend the wrist (extensor muscles): Straighten the arm out fully and push the palm of the hand down so you feel a
stretch across the top of the forearm. Exercise 2. Stretching the muscles that flex the wrist (flexor muscles): straighten the arm out fully (palm side up), and push the palm downward to
stretch. Strengthening exercises are performed twice a day following the stretching exercises. To perform these exercises, the patient sits in a chair with the elbow supported on the edge of a
table or on the arm of the chair the wrist hanging over the edge. Use a light weight such as a hammer or soup can when performing the strengthening exercises. Repeat the exercises 30 to 50
times, twice a day, but do not push yourself beyond the point of pain. Exercise 3. Strengthening wrist extensor muscles: Hold the weight in the hand with the palm facing down. Extend the
wrist upward so that it is pulled back. Hold this position for 2 seconds and then lower slowly. Exercise 4. Strengthening wrist flexor muscles: Hold the weight in the hand with the palm up. Pull
the wrist up, hold for 2 seconds and lower slowly. Exercise 5. Strengthening the muscles that move the wrist from side to side (deviator muscles): Hold the weight in the hand with the thumb
pointing up. Move the wrist up and down, much like hammering a nail. All motion should occur at the wrist. Exercise 6. Strengthening the muscles that twist the wrist (pronator and supinator
muscles): Hold the weight in the hand with the thumb pointing up. Turn the wrist inward as far as possible and then outward as far as possible. Hold for 2 seconds and repeat as much as pain
allows, up to 50 repetitions. Exercise 7. Massage is performed over the area of soreness. Apply firm pressure using 2 fingers on the area of pain and rub for 5 minutes. If exercise aggravates
any of your symptoms, contact a physician or physical therapist These exercises can be used to prevent or rehabilitate injuries in people who play sports or in those who do repetitive forearm
work, Tim L. Uhl, PrT., A.T.,C.