History - very high-level description of Connecticut road activity over the past few centuries Historical Overview - When I'm lucky enough to find out exactly when something happened, I put it
here. Some of those bridges you drive on may be older than you think. Timeline Connecticut's plan to pave 375 new miles of road with a concrete base -- much better quality than the existing
pavement. The six trunk lines were not signed, but did have numbers. Includes map. 1913 Trunk Line system This is why Routes 8, 10, 12, and 32 go north-south and cross into many other
states; they were part of a New England-wide road network set up in the early 1920s. New England Interstates A list of all those funky route numbers that the state threw away in 1932. Route
300? 333? 360? How come there were hardly any 200's? All is revealed. 1920s routes / Great Renumbering In the early 1960s, the state reorganized its highway system, transferring several
routes between town and state control. About 1/3 of all routes were affected. The Small Renumbering In 1948, the state began experimenting with color-coded route markers in cities: each
through route would have its own color, to aid in navigation. Color-coded Route Markers Maps Connecticut highways have evolved a lot over the past 70 years; so have the road maps. I
discuss the changes in style and format, and include scans of several maps: not just the covers, but the roads too! The Map Inside: The Connecticut Officials Other stuff - Disappearing
highways, Route A, Route 8, and more. Weird Tales Guest Columnists With no expressway connecting these capital cities, "there's more than one way to do it from one to the other. Fellow
road fan Jon Persky provides 12 ways, adding history and what you'll expect to see along the way. 44 ways from Hartford to Providence Face it, some roads are more interesting to drive than
others. Daryl Salem praises some Connecticut routes, pans others, and shows some of the sights along the way. Connecticut Route Synopses Geeky stuff , or Fun Facts Admit it, you wanted to
know this stuff. Which state route is the longest (262 miles). Which one is the shortest (210 _feet_). Also scenic routes, freeways, route numbers not used any more, routes that don't cross a
town line, and more. The List of Lists - higher-level view of entire state highway system. Does Connecticut have any jughandles? Michigan lefts? Find out here. Almanac Why does Route 2
have five Exit 5's, but no exit 14? Descend into an even murkier level of minutiae as we discuss exit numbering in the state: when it started, the system for each highway, and the anomalies
therein. Exit numbering Self-Paced A bakers dozen of stumpers about Connecticut highways. I bet you think you're smart. Quiz - for north central CT, just for kicks. Constraint: cannot
lengthen, delete, add or combine highways. Can only change existing numbers. Goals: more consistent numbering. Renumbering Plan #1 : how my Metro Hartford Proposed Freeways map has
improved over the years. The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly Other links For offsite links, see the . Connecticut Roads Directory This is just for fun Though I get much of my information from
official sources, this is not an official State of Connecticut site. The DOT site is . I'm just here to share information and maybe entertain. I do value accuracy, though. If you spot a mistake, or
have something to add, my e-mail address is on every page. Thanks! www.ct.gov/dot/ This is the place for information on every numbered highway -- living, extinct, or proposed -- in
Connecticut. I have history for all of them, and custom maps and more details for some. If you're short on time, just type the route number in the box and press Find: Go to Route Links to all
parts of this site are on the right. Below are some highlights and ideas of where to start. Renowned and Notorious Roads Driving or can be an ordeal. But and can take you to vacation spots
And the and are known nationwide for their scenery. I-84 I-95 Route 2 Route 9 Merritt Parkway Route 169 Cancelled Highways Connecticut has no shortage of these. In the Hartford area, try ,
of (the Bushnell Park Connector). 1-291 I-84 to Providence I-484 In New Haven, see , the , or the . Route 34 East Rock Connector Ring Road Did you know that at one point was to be an
expressway? , too. And even . Route 10 Route 32 Route 83 Controversial Routes Try in Preston; to Willimantic; the from Norwalk to Danbury; or . Route 2A US 6 "Super 7" Route 11 Maps I
also have a retrospective of Connecticut's . official highway maps Obscure, hidden and forgotten In the , Connecticut reorganized its highway system and changed about 1/3 of all its routes;
that's why older maps look a bit odd. In the , the state changed nearly . early 1960s early 1930s everything For specific routes, try in Fairfield County; or in Kent; in eastern Connecticut; or a
driving trip along . Route 105 Route 130 I-82 the original Route 8 Route Numbering State routes are numbered between 2 and 999; however, those above 399 are routes, maintained by the
state but not signposted. Connecticut does not allow a state route with the same number as a US or Interstate route. "Secret" The highest signed route is 372; the highest secret route, 919.
(The highest route ever appears to be SR 950 in East Granby, in the 1940s). More info, complete lists: Signed Routes Secret routes Short History Connecticut started numbering its highways
around 1922, predating the US route system's inauguration in 1926, The route numbers in were almost completely different from those today. the 1920s. In response to changing laws for
federal highway aid, the state in 1932 renumbered most of its highways, creating many routes (such as 67, 58, and 87) you would recognize today. Throughout the 1930s, 40s and 50s there
were scattered changes. Along with the signed routes was a system of unposted "secret" routes, with administrative numbers reaching into the 900s. In 1961 the state decided to re-examine
its highway system, and reclassified hundreds of miles of roads. Some state routes were deleted (turned over to the town), some created, and many renumbered. Most signed routes above 220
are a product of this reclassification. The state's secret routes were renumbered into a geographically grouped system; for example, routes in Eastern Connecticut were numbered in the 600s.
 Recent highway projects completed in Connecticut include (1994) and an improved (1996). Interstate 291 Route 2A The Future The days of new freeways are over; we won't see any of the
ambitious 1960s plans revived any time soon. A few projects remain on the books: completing ; improving and ; spot improvements on ; a new Q-Bridge on I-95 in New Haven; and upgrades
to I-84 in Waterbury - Southington and Danbury. Route 11 US 7 Route 25 I-95 An extension of and a bypass for southeastern Route 2 are also proposed. Route 2A Links are to the right; hope
you have fun at Connecticut Roads!