UNDERGRADUATE If you are an undergraduate student with no previous college credit, or if you are a non degree seeking student, we will not need any transcripts. If you are an
undergraduate student with previous college credit and you have not earned a BachelorLJs degree or above yet, we do need official transcripts sent from all previous institutions and a TCE
Application for transfer credit review. If the course work was completed at an institution not accredited by a US recognized body, you will need to have a degree verification evaluation
completed by an international education agency. Please email for more information. intemational@apus.edu GRADUATE: If you are a graduate student, we still need an official transcript of
your BachelorLis or higher degree conferred. If the degree was conferred by an institution not accredited by a US recognized body, you will need to have a degree verification evaluation
completed by an international education agency. Please email for more information. international@apus.edu Accepted Organizations for Evaluation of International Credentials: APUS will
accept international transcript evaluation reports from agencies belonging to any of these organizations: American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, Office of
International Education Services (AACRAO-OIES) is the national professional association for university registrars and admissions staffs. It provides credential evaluation services to institutions
and individuals. Association of International Credential Evaluators, Inc. (AICE) is a California-based organization of credential evaluating services and consultants. National Association of
Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) is an association representing private credential evaluation services. Its web site maintains direct links and contact information for all member services.
 Because membership may change
throughout the year, applicants with a non-U.S. transcript(s) requiring evaluation should visit the organizations websites to see the most current information. The student is responsible for
contacting the agency directly for procedure and fee information.NOTE: Top . Please remember to include your full name and student ID.For additional information please contact us at
international@apus.edu AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the and
nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council 2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles
Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 || | 111 |