News & Happenings June 5, 2007 You arrive at the checkpoint to the sound of a transportation security officer reminding travelers to remove liquids, gels and aerosols from carry-ons. To the
seasoned traveler this is old news, but to the seasonal traveler it might be a surprise. Regardless of your personal travel experience, the international traveling community agrees ~ TSA's 3-1-1
for liquids makes security sense. Countries around the world support TSA's approach to reducing the amount of liquids, gels and aerosols passengers can bring in their carry-ons. The rule limits
the volume of liquids, gels and aerosols to bottles 3 ounces or smaller (or 100 mi), in 1 quart-sized zip top bag, and 1 bag per traveler. TSA implemented the 3-1-1 policy in response to the
thwarted liquid explosive bomb plot in the United Kingdom in August of 2006. Today, the wide-spread acceptance of that policy demonstrates the international understanding of the threat to
aviation from liquid explosives. Countries that are currently harmonized with TSA's rules for carrying liquids through the checkpoint include: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Brazil,
Canada, Cape Verde, China, Cook Islands, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, French Polynesia, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Ukraine and the United Kingdom. More than
70 percent of the world's air travelers now experience enhanced security measures at the checkpoint. The next time you hear a transportation security officer reminding passengers to finish
their iced coffees before going through airport security, remember that as a global citizen, you are not alone. Additional Resources