1. Party Planning The traditional image of bachelor parties usually involves a wild, drunken evening followed by some embarrassing stories the next morning! There are, however, plenty of
different and unusual things to fill a stag party. As the organizer, you have plenty of things to consider when planning a stag party. The first thing to consider is whether you wish to hold a
private party, or whether you prefer a night on the town. A night out can require a lot less planning than a private bachelor party, as there's no need to hire a venue. Begin the planning by
deciding what your budget is, and how the cost of the night will be paid - will you be charging guests for the night? Or, will guests buy drinks from a bar with no venue costs associated? If your
guests have a high budget, a night out in a casino or a trip abroad could be a great way of making your stag party a night to remember. If you decide to have a private party, then carefully
consider the venue - what time will it cose? How much does it cost? Will the staff be included in the price? Discuss all your needs with the venue management before agreeing to use the
venue. One important factor in your planning, and possibly one of the more difficult aspects to organize, is the date of your event. Try to choose a date when most of your guest list will be
available, avoiding public holidays and religious festivals. Unless your stag has a very strong stomach, it may be a good idea to plan the bachelor party for a few nights before the big day - after
all, there's nothing worse than having a bad hangover while walking down the aisle! When you have the night planned, try to contact as many of your stag's friends as possible and let them
know the date, time, and venue. You may wish to keep the details of the night a secret from the stag, so consider asking friends and relatives for a copy of any phone numbers and addresses.
@ 2. Stag Weekends For a great stag night to remember, you could consider expanding the night into a whole weekend away. Obviously, a weekend away would increase the overall cost of
your event, but with low-cost flights and cheap hotels, it needn't break the bank - and it would certainly make your night special for the stag! For US and Canadian bachelors, why not consider
a trip to Las Vegas, the party capital of North America? You could arrange to spend some time in the bars and casinos and then stay in one of Las Vegas' many hotels. For European residents, a
weekend spent visiting the sights of Amsterdam, London, or Barcelona could make for a memorable weekend for your stag. You could approach a travel agent, as most agencies do offer stag
packages that will encompass transport and hotel accommodation for a set fee. If you decide not to use a travel agent, as the organizer of the stag night, you should search out the most
appropriate transport, hotels, and entertainment for your guests and the stag. Try to find the best bars, clubs, and maybe even plan out which places to visit. You could then send a copy of the
approximate cost and details of the event to the guests, to see how many would be willing and able to attend the event - after all, there is no point in organizing a big stag weekend and then
finding that none of the guests can attend. 3. Tee-Total Stag Party? The typical image of a crazy, alcohol filled evening can be shattered, if your bachelor doesn't drink alcohol. But don't worry,
there are plenty more activities that can bring the stag and the guests together. A tee-total stag will most likely not want a night out around the local bars, so why not try something unusual
like paint balling - it's a great way to have fun without drinking, and it would make the perfect activity for an alcohol-free stag night. You could try to find an outdoor paint-balling arena that is
open at night for an interesting touch. Karting could also be a good option - it's another good example of a way to have a great bachelor party with a non-drinking stag. You could even arrange
a bachelor camping trip with activities such as fishing and hiking. Think about what activities the stag normally enjoys and then try to make a night out of it. The obvious benefit to a tee-total
stag night is that the stag has no worries about missing the day thanks to a hangover! So, this could allow you to plan the bachelor party for the evening before the wedding, without any
worries. 4. Bachelor Party Planning Agents If you're still stuck for ideas, why not consider a Party Planner? There are agencies that will plan every stage of your evening for you and give you
one bill at the end. Some agencies may not even charge for their services and can be an extremely useful tool in the planning of your bachelor party. Agencies may be in a better position to
negotiate hotel costs, saving you money and time. If you are paying for the services of a planning agency, make sure that they are worth their money and consider if you could do the same job
yourself at a lower cost. Most agencies will be in a unique negotiating position with suppliers, and they will have the experience to manage a variety of situations, and deal with any problems
that may occur. An agency can source suitable venues and give you a short list of the most viable, negotiating a good pricing deal with your chosen venue. Similarly, the agency can then find
suitable local accommodation and book the required rooms. 5. Hotels If your guests are travelling long distances to attend the stag night, then hotel accommodations should factor into your
planning. If you are choosing the hotel accommodations, try to choose a hotel that is located close to your stag party venue, as your guests may not have their own transport. If you are
booking rooms for a large number of guests, then try to negotiate a discount with the hotel management. Altermatively, you may wish to provide guests with a list of local hotel
accommodations, helping them to choose somewhere to stay - this could save time and would give the party guests a greater choice. Remember that bachelor parties often get quite rowdy,
and this may not go down well with the hotel management! 6. Hangover Cures If you do hold the bachelor party a little too close to the wedding, then you might find yourself contending with
a groggy, hung over stag on the morning of his wedding. Alcohol dehydrates the body and removes vital vitamins and minerals that make for a less than ideal feeling on the big day. While the
only real hangover cure is to not drink, there are some things you can do to help the bachelor, following a wild stag party. Try to drink a glass of water in between alcoholic drinks - this will help
prevent dehydration and could reduce your hangover the next day. The morning after, rehydrating the body and replacing vitamins and minerals should be your first priority so try to drink
plenty of water. A smoothie can be a great way to replace vitamins, so why not try blending together some strawberries, an apple, a banana, and some melon for a tasty way of getting back to
normal? Stick with starchy, non-fatty foods that will soak up the alcohol in the body and help get the bachelor on the road to recovery. The old "hair of the dog myth could even be attempted -
drinking more alcohol on top of your hangover will often leave you feeling a little better. In the long run, this can have serious health implications, but it could be used as a one-off solution for
the wedding day. 7. Adult Bachelor Parties Bachelor parties often have an "adult" theme, which can range from gambling and partying to striptease parties and more. Strip clubs, lap dancers,
and even prostitutes often feature heavily in bachelor parties, as the would-be groom has one last taste of "freedom." The most important thing to remember when organizing any of this adult
entertainment is that the bachelor shouldn't do anything that he will live to regret. The line between having some bachelor party fun and doing something regrettable and potentially illegal is
very thin, so tread carefully. That said, adult themed bachelor parties could be a lot of fun! If it's a lap dance that you're looking for, you may wish to visit a lap dancing bar, eliminating any
legal worries. Most lap dancing clubs will offer a full bar service and, many clubs are located in city centers, within walking distance of other bars and clubs. If you do decide to order a private
party performer, make sure that it is legal in the state or country that you are in - you don't want to end up in jail on the day of the wedding! 8. Relaxing the Bachelor In the run up to his
wedding, the bachelor is probably feeling a little bit tense. As the organizer of his stag party, it's up to you to relax him. A great way to make your stag party more fun and to get everyone
relaxed is to create a theme, Getting everyone to dress up can show that you're out to have a good time and help the bachelor and the guests to let go and have a giggle. Novelty fancy dress
costumes can be a great way of doing this - get everyone dressed up as their favorite 80's band member, for example. Bring plenty of props, as they are sure to grab everyone's attention;
inflatable guitars, stick on moustache - use your imagination! Dressing up can help everyone to relax and to enjoy the night. Create a list of rules, which should put the bachelor's mind at ease
Rule number one should be that what happens at the bachelor party, stays at the bachelor party and that no details of the night should be leaked to the bride or her friends! Take a camera, but
only bachelor-approved photos should ever be shown to the bride. Getting the bachelor to relax is the job of the best man, so don't push him into doing anything - if you can tell that he isn't
happy with something, then drop it. 9. Decor For big private bachelor parties, the entertainment and decor can be the most remembered aspects of your event. Decorating your venue can be
a great way to immerse your guests in the theme of your stag party. This would obviously have to be discussed with the venue owners and would have to be cleared away after the event has,
finished, which can be an expensive and time consuming task. Some agencies can provide decorations and will fit and remove them for a fixed price, but it could be much cheaper to organize
this yourself. Decorations could include banners, balloons, and much more depending on the nature of the event. Develop a decoration plan using your party themes to guests( imagination
flowing! Decoration could include giving direction to guests for the main location of your event - for example, signs placed around the venue and the surrounding area informing guests to the
parking location and check-in area would be extremely useful. You could also consider setting up a stage for your entertainment, if no stage is provided in your chosen venue. Make sure that
the decor is done well in advance, allowing the other areas of your event to be set up without interference. Related Articles