AMU accepts students for graduate-level study who have earned a Bachelor's degree or have previously earned graduate credit at an institution accredited by a recognized accrediting
body.Admissions: Graduate Students Master's Degree To earn a MasterCIs degree, students must complete a minimum of 12 courses and take a final comprehensive

examination, thesis option, or capstone/applied research project at the end of all course work. Graduate Certificate The Graduate Certificate program is a five-course, focused program of
study on a particular topic or set of issues. The certificate program appeals to students who already possess a Masters degree and seek specific knowledge in a subject area. It also appeals to
students who possess 2 BachelorCls degree and seek graduate-level knowledge and credentials without completing an entire graduate degree. Note: Students pursuing graduate certificates
may not use Federal Student Aid to finance their program. Admissions Requirements If you are applying to a graduate-level program, you must submit the following documents: Official
transcript showing you have eamed a Bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by a recognized accrediting body. If you have earned a Master's or doctoral degree from an accredited
institution, submit the official advanced degree transcript in lieu of an undergraduate degree transcript. If you earned graduate-level credit without completing the degree and want to have it
evaluated for transfer, submit official transcripts of this coursework along with the Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) application and fee. for full instructions on TCE submission. Click here
Students seeking the Master's in Education degrees will have additional admissions requirements. Please click to review the admission requirements for the Master's in Education programs.
here Additional Transfer Credit AMU also will consider professional military education and specific civilian, corporate, and government training evaluated by the American Council on Education
(ACE) for graduate credit. Your credits must have been earned within the last 10 years. Please refer to the TCE instructions for full details. Graduate students may transfer up to a maximum
of 15 credit hours. American Public University System 10110 Battleview Parkway, Suite 114 Manassas, VA 20109 Attn: Student RecordsNote: Mail Admissions and Transfer Credit Documents
to the Following Address: Admissions Fax: (304) 724-3787 Transfer Credit Fax: (304) 724-3788 AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is
regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the and nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training
Council 2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 || II || |