January 18, 2008 - 4 Comments The pi ata ritual can offer an unsentimental analysis of life. Once Upon A Time, Like When I Was Getting Into All This In 1991 Quark was King Bee, the True
Faith. Quark was also Old Testament: inscrutable, implacable, and inflexible. The Holy Writ that came with it in The Big Box was unreadable. I had better luck deciphering North Korean
Presidium documents back in 1975. It was the only game in town. Over the years I looked long and hard into Quarks Dark Heart, and kept hearing Ella Fitzgerald singing Ev'rything I've Got":
Something beats in his chest, But its just a pump at best. It would tank. Fonts would corrupt. The monitor would flash the dreaded "#39: Unexpected End of File Encountered. There went
your afternoon. Saving frequently was essential and habitual. And I got very good at reconstructing lost documents, always under deadline. Asking arcane questions on various QuarkLists
involved a lot of dial-up if you were away from the office. The answers might as well have been recorded on a quipu somewhere. These Lists main traffic was or colorful in-group flames by a
select Kool Kids Klub. So in the end I learned Quark from old-school typographers and endless self-tutoring."uh& how do I do extra leading on the end of a paragraph? Trying to get answers
out of Quark Support was futile. If you worshiped remote gods, or had grown up with an absent parent; this was for you. The other part of that dialectic was that people still had the notion that
the Mac was the center of a warm, fuzzy community, and you could just hang out and ask questions. No, Quark made it clear that it was all commerce, all the time. No group hugs from them,
only a reach-around. After a while, enough people got tired of all that. They'd had also gotten past the notion that software companies were Your Friend. Gathering Evolutionary Developments
 Adobe had built its everlasting fortune on the Acrobat PDF platform. PDFs had become integral in government, corporate, and other bureaucratic structures. Illustrator and Photoshop were
small slices of the revenue-stream. But here was a chance to crack into the page-layout game. Sometime in 1998 or so, Adobe inhaled PageMaker, retired it, and then retooled it as InDesign
1.0. NopeCinot ready for prime-time. It still had a long way to go. They went back to the drawing board and came up with ID1.5. The training-wheels were off, and it was free-wheeling, but
still wobbly. Further refinements yielded IDCS2, and that's where it really took off. Adobe had pulled off a similar evolutionary leap with Illustrator. AI3 was similar to AI88 with a dopey
interface and limited features. Freehand held the face cards in that bout, despite its weird twin-file set-up, arcane font-handling and rendering, and other features I've mercifully forgotten. But
Adobe retooled AI3 into AIS where the font-handling became cleaner. Freehands days were now numbered. The primary hurdle for InDesign were the service bureaus. Theyd gotten used to
the peculiarities of Quark, Illustrator, and Photoshop. They were just not interested in a Freehand-like raising hell in their shops. And if they werent placated, there was no future for the
program.justgolem Adobe cleaned it up. The Evolving Technology Platform Without getting into a lot of speak, the infrastructure got larger, faster, and more surefooted.ur-weenie For
instance: in 91 my was the Mac Daddy. It had (brace yourself) a 100mb hard drive! 4mb RAM! And when I up bought a 16mb RAM upgrade, it cost $600. Like heroinDlit was hand-delivered in
a glassine package. IIfx In ten years the hard drives were now in Gigs, the ram was closing on on a gig, processors blew the doors off their predecessors, and the ZipDisk was the new
mega-floppy. Memory and hard-drive prices had fallen through the floor. The new machines could now handle full-resolution high-rez files, whereas in 1992 we did outputs and pasted them
onto boards, still with FPO's. It reminded me of the hybrid ironclad full-sail brigantines with side-wheel paddles. Finally, the introduction of OS x ditched what hadnt worked well, eliminated
the march of the inits on start-up, and stabilized matters considerably. Quark vs. InDesign: Real World My job as Mr Pre-Flight at the gave me a window seat of the changing landscape. T
kept track of the files as they came in and traveled through the system. Workbook This was the file breakdown in 2004:* 350 Quark