[] Subscribe To This Site ? Lumbar lordosis is an exaggerated inward curvature of the lower back region. Most of these increased curvatures are mild to moderate in severity and will not cause
any symptoms, pain or obvious physical deformities. Some mild to moderate curvatures might create the appearance of a hollowed out lower back and protruding buttocks. Severe is likely to
cause noticeable visual deformity of the spine. Lordosis is usually not a cause for concem, but any suspicious spinal curves should be checked out by a qualified Many patients discover that they
have this condition when undergoing a physical examination or diagnostic imaging study for a completely unrelated condition. Most people are shocked to hear that they have lived with an
abnormal spinal curve for many years without even being aware of it. Doctors must reinforce the fact that this condition is usually not symptomatic in these newly diagnosed patients. Lack of
positive reassurance will undoubtedly cause a effect which might lead to a condition in the lumbar spine. Most abnormal lumbar lordotic curves do not require any special care or The curves
simply exist, but do not cause any particular physical pain or related symptoms. In the rare case of severe lordotic curvature, the most common conservative treatments are specialized and
Drastic treatment almost always consists of of the lumbar vertebrae. This operation is chocked full of and should be avoided if at all possible. Abnormal lordotic curves in the lower back often
coexist with other spinal curvatures such as or thoracic The spinal vertebrae are interrelated and interdependent structures. Conditions which affect one region will normally have a ripple effect
on surrounding vertebral levels. Multiple spinal curves are still no cause for alarm, except in the most severe of curvatures. Severely exaggerated lordotic curvatures or loss of the lumbar
lordotic curve should be monitored and treated by a spinal curvature specialist. 10/19/07 Revised 9/23/08 Lumbar Lordosis