Links to Additional Information Overview Because a tornado is part of a severe convective storm, and these storms occur all over the Earth, tornadoes are not limited to any specific
geographic location. In fact, tornadoes have been documented in every one of the United States, and on every continent, with the exception of Antarctica (even there, a tornado occurrence is
not impossible). In fact, wherever the atmospheric conditions are exactly right, the occurrence of a tornadic storm is possible. More on the conditions necessary for tornado formation can be
found at the . NOAA National Severe Storms Laboratory Tornado Page However, some parts of the world are much more prone to tornadoes than others. Globally, the middle latitudes, between
about 30 and 50 North or South, provide the most favorable environment for tornadogenesis. This is the region where cold, polar air meets against warmer, subtropical air, often generating
convective precipitation along the collision boundaries. In addition, air in the mid-lattitudes often flows at different speeds and directions at different levels of the troposphere, facilitating the
development of rotation within a storm cell. Interestingly, the places that receive the most frequent tornadoes are also considered the most fertile agricultural zones of the world. This is due in
part to the high number of convective storms delivering needed precipitation to these areas. Simply as a result of the large number of convective storms and the favorable environment, the
odds are increased that some of these storms will produce tornadoes. In terms of absolute tornado counts, the United States leads the list, with an average of over 1,000 tornadoes recorded
each year. A distant second is Canada, with around 100 per year. Other locations that experience frequent tornado occurrences include northern Europe, western Asia, Bangladesh, Japan,
Australia, New Zealand, China, South Africa and Argentina. In fact, the United Kingdom has more tomadoes, relative to its land area, than any other country. Fortunately, most UK tomadoes
are relatively weak. [] Encyclopaedia Britannica Article Regions of the world with increased likelihood of experiencing tornadoes. top of the page Tornado Alley In the United States, there are
two regions with a disproportionately high frequency of tornadoes. Florida is one and "Tornado Alley" in the south-central U.S. is the other. Florida has numerous tomadoes simply due to the
high frequency of almost daily thunderstorms. In addition, several tropical storms or hurricanes often impact the Florida peninsula each year. When these tropical systems move ashore, the
embedded convective storms in the rain bands often produce tomadoes. However, despite the violent nature of a tropical storm or hurricane, the tornadoes they spawn (some as water spouts)
tend to be weaker than those produced by non-tropical thunderstorms. Tomado Alley is a nickname given to an area in the southern plains of the central U.S. that consistently experiences a
high frequency of tornadoes each year. Tornadoes in this region typically happen in late Spring and occasionally the early fall. The Gulf Coast area has a separate tornado maximum nicknamed
"Dixie Alley" with a relatively high frequency of tornadoes occurring in the late fall (October through December). Strong to violent tornadoes (those of EF3 or stronger on the ), are relatively
rare, and do not typically occur outside the United States. Although the boundaries of Tornado Alley are debatable (depending on which criteria you use - frequency, intensity, or events per unit
area), the region from central Texas, northward to northern Iowa, and from central Kansas and Nebraska east to western Ohio is often collectively known as Tornado Alley. Meteorologically, the
region known as Tornado Alley is ideally situated for the formation of supercell thunderstorms, often the producers of violent (EF2 or greater) tornadoes. Enhanced Fujita Tornado Damage
Intensity Scale Overall, most toriadoes (around 77%) in the U.S. are considered weak (EFO or EF1) and about 95% of all U.S. tornadoes are below EF3 intensity. The remaining small
percentage of tornadoes are categorized as violent (EF3 and above). Of these violent twisters, only a few (0.1% of all tornadoes) acheive EFS status, with estimated winds over 200 mph and
nearly complete destruction. However, given that on average over 1000 tornadoes hit the U.S. each year, that means that 20 can be expected to be violent and possibly one might be incredible
(EFS). U.S. Tornado Frequency and Tomado Alley