Back Combustion Dynamics of Conventional and Alternative fuel Alternative fuel combustion at high pressure and temperature is a complex problem involving fluid mechanics, multiphase heat
transfer and chemistry which needs to be understood for improving fuel flexibility of current gas turbines as well as for better portable design of the premixers, afterbumers and fuel injection
schemes. This project aims specifically at a better understanding of alternative fuel combustion dynamics at high pressures with emphasis on syngas through exhaustive series of experiments
and computations. The experimental part of the project will involve adapting or piggybacking on the full scale combustor along with innovative designs of premixer and fuel injection
Prototypical swirl burner can also be designed and mated with the a proposed high pressure combustor for smaller scale studies of combustion dynamics. Measurements of flame structure,
ignition time and flame stability with respect to upstream flow modulations, homogeneity in the premixer and composition gradients will be carried out for a wide range of inlet flow conditions,
pressure ranges [5-40 atm], fuel injections, effective fuel/air ratio and wall cooling schemes. Detailed measurements of velocity and species concentrations, pollutant emissions, gas
temperature in the recirculation zone and reaction kinetics will also be performed. Measurements will involve laser based diagnostics methods like laser induced fluorescence, laser induced
incandescence, Rayleigh, Raman and particle image velocimetry. Special care will be taken to adapt the diagnostic methods at higher pressures. This task is non-trivial and involves innovative
redesign and extension of existing spectroscopic techniques. For e.g. laser induced fluorescence will have significant quenching effects at high pressures and needs to be modified and adapted
for quality data. Mixing characteristics and homogeneity in the premixer will be investigated using tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy and laser induced fluorescence in addition to
computational modeling involving characterization of fuel injection by analyzing spray dynamics for various fuel types. Particular effort will be dedicated towards mechanistic modeling of the
processes of fuel droplet breakup, topology of atomization, penetration and entrainment, which are crucial for mixing and subsequent homogeneity of the fuel-air mixture.

Diagnostics/sensor development in the combustor Soot distribution in a vortex-flame interaction as in turbine combustion as a) function of time of interaction, b) vortex strength
and c) Flow field characterization in a flame-vortex interaction