The Lazy ParrotInn, mini-Resort & Condos RestaurantNotes RestaurantNotes RestaurantNotes The Lazy Parrot Restaurants Some of Rincon's favorite restaurants are right here at The Lazy
Parrot - whether you're looking for a romantic dinner at Smilin Joe's or, a quick snack or tropical drink at The Rum Shack by the pool. The poolside lobby hosts our Continental Breakfast Buffet
every morning. Catering is available for Weddings, Meetings, Groups or any Special Events. If all this isn't enough, there are several nearby restaurants that are only a short drive away!
Smilin Joe's-Casual Elegance in our Gazebo Dining Room at The Lazy Parrot - Dinner Daily Smilin Joe's, now serves creative Caribbean-Asian Fusion cuisine that combines bold flavors from
around the world. From Thanksgiving til Memorial Day we serve dinner in our Tropical Garden Dining Pavillion. In summer, we move poolside along with The Rum Shack. Reservations
recommended. 787-823-0101 Smilin Joe's Website The Rum Shack Bar & Restaurant-Informal Poolside Dining and Caribbean Bar. Our Rum Shack Restaurant serves lighter meals and snacks
next to the pool. Special theme nights feature 'Sushi Night, 'Mexican Night! or 'Movie Night. The bar at The Rum Shack is one of Rincon's favorite hangouts when people want to get away
from all the activity on the beach and enjoy a refreshing drink and great conversation beside the pool. Closed Thursdays 787-823-0103 Seaglass Bar-Hidden away in our garden grotto above
the pool and below the Dining Pavillion. The perfect place to enjoy a drink and conversation with friends and fellow travelers. The Seaglass Bar is located on the garden mezinnine between
Smilin Joe's Restaurant and the pool level. Make sure that you ask for their fancy tropical drink specials - especially our famous Bailey's Banana Daiquiris. Open from Thanksgiving through
Memorial Day while dinner is served in the Garden Dining Pavillion. 787-823-0101 Mezinnine Garden Grotto Poolside Breakfast Buffet -Included in all of our room rates - FREE every morning
of your stay! Located in our new building near the office and the gift shop, our Continental breakfast buffet is included in all room rates. The selection of items may change - but usually
includes bread/bagels/muffins, waffles, cereals, coffee/tea and fruit juice. There are plenty of tables to enjoy your breakfast here or beside the pool - or take your selection back to your room!
Available from 8am - 10:00am daily. 8am - 10:00am Poolside Lobby ~ Restaurant schedules at The Lazy Parrot are subject to change based on occupancy and season: - Thanksgiving
through Memorial Day: Smilin Joe's is open daily for dinner in the upper level Garden Dining Pavillion. The SeaGlass Bar is open each evening. The Rum Shack Bar & Restaurant is open for
lunch and dinner but closed on Thursday. Breakfast Buffet is open daily.Winter Season - Memorial Day through August 18th: Smilin Joe's moves poolside for dinner. The Rum Shack is open for
lunch and dinner. Both restaurants and bar are closed on Thursdays during the summer. The SeaGlass Bar and the Garden Dining Pavillion are closed for the summer, but available for catering
or special events. Breakfast Buffet is open daily.Summer Season - All restaurants and bars are closed from August 18th through October 10th except the Free Breakfast Buffet which remains
open for guests each morning in our main lobby. From October 11th through Thanksgiving - The Rum Shack opens for lunch and dinner but both the bar and restaurant are closed on
Thursdays.Fall Season Catering & Special Events The Lazy Parrot can cater your special events at Smilin Joes's Restaurant or The Rum Shack using any of the facilities of our hillside resort.
From a simple meeting to a family reunion or a large wedding - our catering staff will make your event memorable. For more information on catering and special events at The Lazy Parrot,
contact Lia Franek at 787- 426 - 5757 Other Nearby Restaurants - only a few minutes away... Just next door to The Lazy Parrot is a bakery/mini-mart that is open from early morning to
late evening. On the other side of the main entrance is our favorite coffeeshop and internet cafe where you can get free Wi-Fi internet access within the cafe (purchase of beverage required) or
use internet-computers for a small charge. There are also lots of great restaurants that are just a few minutes drive from The Lazy Parrot. You can ask our staff for suggestions - but here
are a few of our guest's favorites... The Tapas Bar at Casa Islena- just down the hill on 'The Fun Coast Come enjoy casual outdoor dining. Visit the Tapas Bar at Casa Isle a for delicious, light
eclectic tapas and refreshing sangrias. Enjoy fresh fish and organic salads, locally made desserts, and creative specials surrounded by beautiful gardens and the sounds of the ocean. Open
seven days a week for lunch and dinner from December to April, and limited hours during the summer season. 787-823-1525 The Fun Coast Tamboo Beside the Pointe- just down the hill on
"The Fun Coast The Tamboo Seaside Grill offers the best in American and Caribbean cooking. Our menu is based on what's market fresh & the catch of the day. We have combined our
experience with traditional Puerto Rican cuisine & American light cooking - a tropical menu simple but rich in flavors.. 787-823-8550 Calypso Bar & Grill- 3 minute drive near Rincon's
Lighthouse One of Rincon's favorite hang-outs. This is the place for people watching, surfing and sunsets. Located at Maria's Beach. This full service bar and grill offers Happy Hour, local talk
& music. Open Daily. 787-823-1626 The Spot @ Black Eagle- 5 minute drive to Rincon's Marina One of Rincon's most famous restaurants located at the Marina. (Open only during winter
season.) This seaside restaurant offers an awesome sunset along with seafood, pasta, steaks and more. Served on the veranda or by the bar, you can't miss the sound of the waves or the talk
of the town. 787-823-3510 Shipwreck Restaurant- 5 minute drive to Rincon's Marina Rincon's newest and freshest restaurant right next to the marina. Come experience home-style,
international cuisine for lunch and dinner in a tropical outdoor setting. The perfect place for the whole family to enjoy with happy hour as well as daily food and drink specials. Don't miss the
Sunday pig roast, Puerto Rico style. 787-823-6429 At the Marina Harbour Restaurant- 6 minute drive to Rincon's Public Beach Harbor Restaurant located right on the beach at Sunset village
Fresh local fish and lobster mixed with Caribbean Creole cuisine. Great Food, Great Prices, Great Atmosphere 787-823-0547 At the Public Beach Marketplace Pancho Villa- 7 minute drive to
Rincon's charming 'Plaza Central Located on the plaza in downtown Rincon. Pancho Villa's offers a variety of Mexican food, tacos, burritos, flautas and more! Save room for dessert...their
fried cheesecake drizzled with caramel, chocolate or strawberry sauce is to die for! Lots of atmosphere....it is a don't miss lunch or dinner! 787-823-8226 Downtown's Central Plaza
Pizzaland- 9 minute drive to Rincon's best Pizza! Delivery Available! Pizza Land - Rincon(ls Favorite Pizza joint serves up piping hot pizzas, subs and calzones. Will Deliver to LZ Parrot. Lunch
specials include 8 personal pizza & soda from $4. 00 Ask for the Oferta & receive 2 Large Pizzas, Crazy Bread & a liter of soda for $21.99. Call to order - 787-823-0606 787-823-0606