Lincoln pulled no punches in his debates with Douglas By Stephen Anderson Abraham Lincoln got right to the point when he faced off with Stephen A. Douglas in their historic debates that
concluded 150 years ago. I ask the attention of the people here assembled and elsewhere, to the course that Judge Douglas is pursuing every day as bearing upon this question of making
slavery national, Lincoln said on the afternoon of Aug. 21, 1858, in Ottawa. He continued his charges during subsequent debates on Aug. 27 in Freeport, Sept. 15 in Jonesboro, Sept. 18 in
Charleston, Oct. 7 in Galesburg, Oct. 13 in Quincy, and Oct. 15 in Alton. The future president had not yet been considered an abolitionist, but he believed in his heart that slavery should not be
permitted to spread into territories that would become states. Lincoln claimed that Douglas would like nothing better than to have the Supreme Court render another Dred Scott-type opinion
that no state could constitutionally exclude slavery. When that is decided and acquiesced in, the whole thing is done, he predicted. This being true, and this being the way as I think that
slavery is to be made national, let us consider what Judge Douglas is doing every day to that end. Noting the vast influence that his adversary was exerting on public sentiment, Lincoln termed
it so great that it is enough for many men to profess to believe anything, when they once find out that Judge Douglas professes to believe it. Later, to cheers and laughter, Lincoln lamented
that I cannot shake Judge Douglas(] teeth loose from the Dred Scott decision. Like some obstinate animal & that will hang on when he has once got his teeth fixed, you may cut off a leg, or
you may tear away an arm, still he will not relax his hold. In closing, Lincoln feared the day when Douglas would succeed in bringing public sentiment to an exact accordance with his own
views and when the people would repeat his views and avow his principles. Then it needs only the formality of the second Dred Scott decision, which he endorses in advance, to make slavery
lawful in all the states Cl old as well as new, North and well as South. Debaters described In the view of Isaac Newton Amold, a contemporary of the two adversaries, These debates made
Douglas senator, and Lincoln president. In Reminiscences of the Illinois Bar, Forty Years Ago; Lincoln and Douglas as Orators and Lawyers, his 1881 speech to the Illinois State Bar Association
in Springfield, Amold described the strengths and weaknesses of each. Lincoln had two advantages over Douglas, he observed. He had the best side of the question, and the best temper. He
was always good humored, always had an apt story for illustration, while Douglas, sometimes, when hard pressed, was irritable. During the debates, Douglas often received the loudest cheers
and applause. He was happy with popular acclaim, while Lincoln aimed at permanent conviction. Arnold noticed that when Lincoln closed, the people seemed solemn and serious, and could be
heard, all through the crowd, gravely and anxiously discussing the topics on which he had been speaking. A close friend and colleague of Abraham Lincoln, Isaac Arnold was elected to the U.S.
House of Representatives in 1860, the year that Lincoln became president. Arnolds 1862 bill abolished slavery in U.S. territories. In 1864, he introduced a constitutional amendment to
abolish slavery throughout the states. It failed, but was renewed in 1865 and adopted on Dec. 6 of that year