(Lansing State Journal, August 10, 1994) What experience do you have using car care products? How did you get started doing this? I was an aircraft structural mechanic building airplanes at
Rockwell in the 80's and was affected by a shut down of their Columbus plant. Since I had a young family, I took a job detailing cars to make ends meet, and then was hired to sell Car Detailing
products to the Professional Detailing Trade and Auto Dealers for a company that distributed car care products, which is no longer in business. The Professional Detailing Trade and Auto
Dealerships depend on Car Care and Appearance Products that work the first time, and are fast and easy to use. I hired a Chemist to help me develop and manufacture our own wax ~ thus Jax
Wax Liquid Paste Carnauba Wax was born. It was a hit. Throughout the years, we have refined and developed other products with the same qualities - Working the First Time, and being Fast
and Easy to use. The rest is history. top What makes Jax Wax Car Care Products better than other products available at stores? All Jax Wax Car Care products have been designed and
developed for use by Professional Detailers - whose livelihood depend on products that Work the First Time, and must be Fast and Easy to use. Consequently they are designed to be of higher
strength and potency, more versatile in their applications, and lower cost per application and per unit of measure. For example, products like Shine All are designed to be mixed with water to
create anywhere from a very high shine, to a satin, or a matte finish depending on your application and preferences. If you try to change to appearance of most retail products, you might as
well throw them in the trash. This versatility coupled with low unit costs make our products superior to many other Car Care products offered in traditional Retail Markets. top Do you
manufacture all of your own products? We manufacture all liquid products here at our plant in Columbus, Ohio. We do not manufacture accessories such as brushes, applicators, spray bottles,
and the like. We only resell products that we sell to the Professional Detail trade and we have found to be of excellent quality. top Why are you selling Jax Wax Car Care products on a web
site? Throughout the course of selling products to the Professional Detailing Trade, demand from individuals has gotten so great that we needed to create a formal distribution pipeline to
satisfy demand. We regularly get calls from people all over the United States wanting our products shipped to them, which has grown purely from word of mouth. The Internet allows us to
satisfy that demand in a seamless manner, which is also the most convenient way for customers with out regard to their location or time zone. top Can I store the products in my garage over
the winter? We recommend that you do not let our products freeze, which can severely effect the performance, application and qualities. top How long does it take to get my order? We ship
every Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. If you place your order by 2PM, it will be shipped the same day. Please allow 2-5 business days for normal delivery, depending on your
location. Very rarely, we experience back orders. We will keep you informed if your order experiences one. You can also select the method of shipment, such as Next Day Air, 2 Day, etc. when
you place your order. top How much are shipping charges? We normally ship via UPS. However, the shopping cart allows you to select the shipping method such as UPS Ground or Next Day
Air and automatically adds your shipping charges when you put items into the cart. The weight of each product is added and is calculated from UPS price tables when you order based on your
zip code and selected delivery method. top Do you ship to International addresses? We use UPS wherever available. Charges will vary depending on your location. Email or PHONE us for
estimates. Because of increasing fraud in overseas orders, all orders placed with an overseas address will be verified via email before processing. If you do not respond to our email, the order
will not be processed. Fraudulent use of credit card numbers is immediately reported to our credit card service, the issuing bank, and appropriate legal authorities! For more information on
international orders, please email us at custcare@jaxwax.us. top What are your Payment Procedures? Is it secure? We accept Discover, MasterCard, Visa, American Express, PayPal, money
orders or personal check. We are unable to offer credit, consignments or C.0.D. shipments. Feel secure when you use our SSL (Secure Socket Layer) Shopping Cart system for credit card
acceptance. It is secure and encrypted when you transfer your credit card information with our SSL Shopping Cart. For more information about the security of Jax Wax, Inc., please view our
privacy policy. Credit Cards Please, please, do not e-mail us your credit card number! Regular e-mail is not a secure way to transfer private information. If you order via e-mail, and you would
like to pay with your credit card, then we will call you at your convenience and get your credit card information. Your order is securely transferred from our servers to theirs for processing,
Processing is done through paypal@jaxwax.us.PayPal We are happy to accept your money order and will ship your product immediately upon receipt of a money order.Money Orders For
payment by personal check, however, please allow for the check to clear before we can ship your products. We regret having to make this policy concerning personal checks; however, believe it
or not, too many fraudulent checks have made this necessary. Sorry!Personal Check top What are your Guarantee, Return and Exchange Policies? In the rare case when you receive a
defective or incorrect product, return it for an exchange or a full refund within 30 days from the date we shipped it. Please read this section carefully before you return any products. Advance
authorization is required for all returns & exchanges. Simply notify us via phone at 877- 7JAXWAX or e-mail custcare@jaxwax.us - whichever is more convenient, before returning product. If
the return is due to defect or an error on our part, we will either provide a postage-paid mailer (when there is sufficient time) or reimburse you for the shipping cost to retum the item. We
reserve the right to refuse any products returned without prior authorization. If you paid by credit card, we will credit your card. You cannot receive a check or cash refund if you paid by credit
card. Send authorized retums & exchanges to: Jax Wax Inc. 3150 Lamb Avenue Columbus, OH 43219 Do you charge Sales Tax? Ohio residents must add sales tax to their order. Sales tax
varies by county location in Ohio. No taxes will be charged to your order unless you are an Ohio resident. We aren't picking on Ohio; it's just that we live here too and any business conducted
in Ohio must be charged sales tax! Duty may be applied if you are ordering from outside the USA. Some countries charge taxes on goods shipped into their countries, so please check with your
local authorities about their taxes. You are responsible for paying them and they will not be included in the invoice Why does water bead up better on a well waxed car? (Lansing State Journal,
August 10, 1994) Water is a polar molecule, composed of two hydrogen atoms bonded to a single oxygen atom. Water molecules like to stick to one another, like small magnets. This is called
cohesion. Water molecules also can be attracted to other substances, such as metal or dirt, especially if they have some static charge on them. This is called adhesion. Lastly, some substances
are not at all attracted to water, and even repel it. These include oils, fats and waxes; all of which are called non-polar substances. When water falls on an unwaxed car, the forces of adhesion
are almost as strong as the forces of cohesion, and the water spreads out. Furthermore, if the painted surface is not perfectly smooth, water can be channeled for some distance along tiny
ridges and valleys. This is particularly true if there is dirt on the car. The dirt itself may be charged, and attract water even more. These tiny flaws may not be readily visible without a
magnifying glass, but you can sense a rough surface when you run your hand over it. On such a rough surface, drops of water appear flat and wide and often uneven. Car wax, when applied
properly to a clean car, fills in the larger scratches and layers the whole car. The chemical structure of the wax prevents water from penetrating to the surface of the car. Because the wax itself
is hydrophobic (literally "fears water"), the forces of adhesion are much less than the forces of cohesion. So, water is more likely to stick to itself, and water beads up higher and rounder than
on an unwaxed car.