Never miss a workout by incorporating these ten antioxidants into your nutrition regimen. Keep Training (posted 08/03/2007) Free radicals everywhere. But what are they? What do they
actually do to our bodies? How do we defend ourselves from them? Antioxidants: The Body's Best Defense (posted 05/02/2007) Arginine AKG You've been taking supplements such as
arginine, camitine, creatine, glutamine and 5-HTP for years. They've helped you get into fighting shape--a lean physique with powerful muscle and athletic prowess. But did you know that some
of your favorite nutrition basics have better health implications too? Here's what science is saying about what you're probably taking already. More Than Muscle (posted 09/26/2007) "Thwap",
yup that is how this all started. You see, one day I was invited to go to a mixed martial arts studio to watch a friend train and lo and behold, since I was a collegiate wrestler I jumped into the
fray and mixed it up with a few of the other trainees. This head-banging experience got me thinking a little more about what goes into the training, nutrition and lifestyle of anyone seriously
involved with fighting sports. I consider the fighting sports to include boxing, all of the different forms of martial arts, Pride, K1, wrestling (collegiate and Olympic), samba and some other types
of the arts. On the ProSource Forum many fighters from various grueling sports are available to interact with you about how they train, eat and plan for their matches. Fighting Nutrition:
Winning by Smarts (posted 02/21/2007) Ronnie Coleman's incredible physique is a product of superior genetics, long-term training, optimal nutrition and a committed attitude. Clearly, these
factors cannot be replaced by the use of dietary supplements. However, scientific study has identified a number of products that offer true benefits to performance (e.g., creatine) or the
achievement of nutritional goals (e.g., meal replacement products). This article examines some science behind the most effective supplements targeted to strength-power athletes. Most
Effective Dietary Supplements for Strength-Power Athletes (posted 02/21/2007) Avena Sativa Muscle building has always been the primary objective for every bodybuilder, whether pro or
amateur. With that, there can be no doubt that when it comes to the acquisition of superhuman strength and enviable virility, the male hormone testosterone is definitely the daddy! In fact, you
would be hard pressed to find any individual who couldn't benefit from an extra helping of "Big T"--and that includes female athletes, too. Muscle Building and the Quest for Test (posted
02/21/2007) 8-phenylethylamine (PEA) Carving out a lean, hard body, with washboard abs is the ultimate goal for bodybuilders. It's what we all should strive for. In the last few years,
however, it has been more and more difficult to find truly effective thermogenic supplements to help us get there. Fortunately, there are new thermogenic, fat-burning compounds hitting the
market now that are backed by real clinical science and delivering truly outstanding results. Before we get to the good stuff, though, we need to dispel the hype about one particularly
ineffective compound being touted in some products, even as we speak. The Next Generation of Thermogenic Fat Burners (posted 02/01/2008) PEA is an ingredient that is popping up in
some purported "weight-loss" formulas, but does it stack up? A critical analysis says not by along shot. ProSource extensively investigated PEA 4 years ago when developing its Provadex
energy supplement, so this is a topic we are intimately familiar with. PEA is a stimulant like substance naturally produced in the body. It is also found in small amounts in chocolate and other
foods such as blue-green algae, salami, and bologna. The reason PEA is showing up in some weight-loss and whole health products is because it is a brain chemical that is associated with
stimulation of various neurotransmitters in the brain that influence emotions such as euphoria, alertness, and feelings of attraction, as well as suppressing appetite. DOES PEA
(PHENYLETHYLAMINE) REALLY WORK? (posted 04/10/2007) Ronnie Coleman's incredible physique is a product of superior genetics, long-term training, optimal nutrition and a committed
attitude. Clearly, these factors cannot be replaced by the use of dietary supplements. However, scientific study has identified a number of products that offer true benefits to performance (e.g.,
creatine) or the achievement of nutritional goals (e.g., meal replacement products). This article examines some science behind the most effective supplements targeted to strength-power
athletes. Most Effective Dietary Supplements for Strength-Power Athletes (posted 02/21/2007) Eons ago, pre-humans evolved big brains, which allowed us to avoid or beat-out predators,
maximize our reproductive potential, and populate the whole planet at the expense of other species. And we've obviously done a great job at that! The brain is of course a tissue, and has
nutritional needs like any other tissue. But it is also a special tissue with special influences, like determining your mood and level of motivation, the perceived difficulty of a workout, your level
of concentration during a workout, and your willingness to train at all. Fortunately, the non-prescription world of nutrients and herbal extracts provides great tools to optimize brain function and
get that grey matter working for you instead of against you. Brain Boosters (posted 02/21/2007) BCAA This article separates the meat from the potatoes, by highlighting in great detail what
most experts consider to be our industry has to offer. They appear in no particular order, but starting out with the most potent protein source out there seems like a good start. Bodybuilding's
Best Muscle-Building Supplements (posted 01/22/2008) the top 5 science-based muscle-building compounds With all the new supplements hitting the market on a near-daily basis, there are
undoubtedly some hidden gems that get ignored. Not the new, fancy ones, mind you, but the timeless mainstays of bodybuilding's past, the supplements forever known for packing an extra
inch of muscle on your arms, yet have somehow fallen in popularity. Branched-chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) are precisely one of those supplements - not quite relegated to obscurity, but
nevertheless overlooked. Branched-Chain Amino Acids: A Blast From the Supplement Past (posted 06/18/2007) Is it possible to develop the perfect workout and bottle it? Could you gather up
all the intensity, the unexpected strength, the supercharged endurance, the freaky pumps, and guarantee it every time you step in the gym? Let's face it, not every workout is what you hope it
will be. It's rarely as good as that nearly spiritual experience you have once in a blue moon. But maybe it can be. With the right pre-exercise nutrition and supplementation, every workout can
be a masterpiece. A steady string of them, and you've got a new physique full of personal strength records and shirt-popping muscles. Pre-Exercise Nutrition: The Blueprint For a Perfect
Workout (posted 05/21/2007) Bodybuilding Supplements, Insulin, Amino Acids & Protein Anabolism: Appropriate resistance exercise leads to significant increase in skeletal muscle mass
(hypertrophy), which can occur through an increase in muscle protein synthesis, a decrease in muscle protein degradation, or both. While stimulus (i.e., resistance exercise) is important for
muscle hypertrophy, nutrient availability plays a critical factor in regulating the degree of hypertrophy. Obviously, the muscle's hormonal milieu also has a major impact on muscle protein
synthesis. Search for the Ultimate Post-Exercise Bodybuilding Supplements: the Anabolic Edge. (posted 04/10/2007) With new and exciting supplement breakthroughs making their debut all
the time, it's sometimes easy to forget the less glamorous nutritional stand-bys of muscle growth. Yes, the new norepinephrine-stimulating super-thermogenics and the muscle-gorging
hemodilators (to pick two examples), show terrific anabolic potential. But real lean mass gains start with the basics. And the most basic and essential building block of all is the branched-chain
amino acid. BCAAs: Essential Building Blocks of Muscle Growth (posted 02/21/2007) Ronnie Coleman's incredible physique is a product of superior genetics, long-term training, optimal
nutrition and a committed attitude. Clearly, these factors cannot be replaced by the use of dietary supplements. However, scientific study has identified a number of products that offer true
benefits to performance (e.g., creatine) or the achievement of nutritional goals (e.g., meal replacement products). This article examines some science behind the most effective supplements
targeted to strength-power athletes. Most Effective Dietary Supplements for Strength-Power Athletes (posted 02/21/2007) Beta-Alanine This article separates the meat from the potatoes, by
highlighting in great detail what most experts consider to be our industry has to offer. They appear in no particular order, but starting out with the most potent protein source out there seems
like a good start. Bodybuilding's Best Muscle-Building Supplements (posted 01/22/2008) the top 5 science-based muscle-building compounds This amino acid is classified as non-essential,
but once you are aware of the science, you'll realize that it is pretty important if your goal is to improve performance. So how does beta-alanine work? Beta-Alanine: Better than Creatine?
(posted 06/04/2007) Is it possible to develop the perfect workout and bottle it? Could you gather up all the intensity, the unexpected strength, the supercharged endurance, the freaky pumps,
and guarantee it every time you step in the gym? Let's face it, not every workout is what you hope it will be. It's rarely as good as that nearly spiritual experience you have once in a blue
moon. But maybe it can be. With the right pre-exercise nutrition and supplementation, every workout can be a masterpiece. A steady string of them, and you've got a new physique full of
personal strength records and shirt-popping muscles. Pre-Exercise Nutrition: The Blueprint For a Perfect Workout (posted 05/21/2007) Creatine is a nitrogenous amine. Normal daily dietary
intake of creatine from an omnivorous diet is about 1 gram. Dietary sources of creatine include meat, fish, and other animal products, but it may also be formed endogenously in the liver,
kidney, and pancreas from the amino acids glycine, arginine, and methionine. One-half kg of fresh, uncooked steak contains about 2 grams of creatine. Creatine has become an extremely
popular nutritional ergogenic among athletes. In 1998, about $200 million was spent on creatine monohydrate (the most studied form of creatine). Of the approximately 300 studies that have
evaluated the potential performance-enhancing (ergogenic) value of creatine monohydrate supplementation, about 70% of these studies report statistically significant results while remaining
studies generally report non-significant gains in performance.1 Creatine Supplementation Strategies: Update (posted 02/21/2007) Caralluma Fimbriata Carving out a lean, hard body, with
washboard abs is the ultimate goal for bodybuilders. It's what we all should strive for. In the last few years, however, it has been more and more difficult to find truly effective thermogenic
supplements to help us get there. Fortunately, there are new thermogenic, fat-bumning compounds hitting the market now that are backed by real clinical science and delivering truly
outstanding results. Before we get to the good stuff, though, we need to dispel the hype about one particularly ineffective compound being touted in some products, even as we speak. The Next
Generation of Thermogenic Fat Bumers (posted 02/01/2008)