Click for full sized poster Kabluey Starring Lisa Kudrow, Scott Prendergast, Christine Taylor; Conchita Ferrell, Terri Garr, and Chris Parnell with Landon Henninger and Cameron Wofford Written
and Directed by Scott Prendergast website: http://www.kabluey.com/ one of the few indie gems that must be sought out. [Rated PG-13 for some sexual material including a crude reference,
and brief strong language. 86 minutes]IN SHORT: While no one but us critics was looking, has been doing the best film work of all of the Friends cast. Year after year, and we know that no one
outside of film freaks living in indie houses has seem em, she has done terrific work. That continues with this summer's , a tale of a broken family (lonely mom and two single digit kidlets from.
hell) and the shlub of an uncle who helps pull things together until his brother can get back from military service in Afghanistan. Lisa KudrowKabluey Okay, now that writer/ director/ producer
has blown a load of steam out of his ears for the perceived diss, let us tip our hats to this triple threat indie gem maker. Yeah, no one wears hats anymore. It's an old compliment (but we're
old. This film easily takes a couple of decades off the back. That's a good thing.)Scott Prendergast is the kind of independent release that, if we're lucky, we get to see maybe once a year.
Twice a year every decade or so. It is stuffed with visible faces from teevee land, all of whom jumped when they read a terrifically written script. Each character is developed. Each gives its
actor something to do. Each is terrifically done. That uses up our allotment of the word "each" for the year so let's lay it out for y'all . . .Kabluey Salman (Prendergast) is a 32 year old loser
who, banned from the state of Nevada, finds himself on the doorstep of his sister in law Leslie's (Lisa Kudrow) house out in the great nowhere of the middle of our country. With a husband
called up for military service, Leslie has to go back to work to maintain the kid's medical insurance. That leaves Salman in charge of two devils ( and ), one of whom promises to kill the Uncle
when he isn't looking. The kid ain't kidding, either.Landon HenningerCameron Wofford Salman finds a job as "mascot" for an Internet disaster called BlueNexTion whose office manager
Kathleen () needs the guy to try and find sublessors for its office space. That means that every morning, Salman climbs into a huge costume fit only for the sidelines at a Z-league football
game and is dumped by the side of a field to hand out fliers to any passing driver who happens to stop and wonder what the heck the blue thing standing out in the middle of nowhere is doing
there. Those would include Betty (), who hires "blue" for her kid's birthday party and Suze () who seems to have psychological problems involving the blue thing.Conchita FerrellChristine
TaylorTerti Garr Sure it sounds like there's a lot of nothing there but Prendergast has done a great job by keeping his story as small as the location, and letting his actors run with their
characters. is, as we write, going to be difficult to find. Do so.Kabluey On average, a first run movie ticket will run you Ten Bucks. Were Cranky able to set his own price to , he would have paid
Kabluey