Conclusion - A Tool for UnderstandingG Citations [Accessed 8 February, 2000] Bruckman, Amy S. (1999) The Day After Net Day: Approaches to Educational Use of The Internet. Convergence.
5:1, Spring, pp.24-26 Gallagher, Kevin M. and Graves, Michael (1996) Electronic Gaming: The Dawn of a New Reality in Forrest, Edward J. (Ed.) Issues in Interactive Communication [Website]
Florida State University. Available from: [Accessed 14 February, 2000] Government of Canada (2000) Computers for Schools - Programme des Ordinateurs Pour les Ecoles [Website]
Government of Canada. Available from: [Accessed 8 February, 2000] Sproull, Lee and Kiesler, Sara (1991) Connections: New Ways of Working in the Networked Organization. Boston, MIT
Press. Turkle, Sherry (1995) Life on The Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet. New York, Touchstone. Youth styles, especially spectacular subcultural styles such as Punk, Goth, Raver and
so on, have been dramatically revitalised and reconfigured as a result of their ongoing development and promulgation over the intemet. In the latter half of the 1970s, "Spectacular
Subcultures" were theorised by the Birmingham Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies (CCCS) to be organised reactions to very specific socio-political conditions. Now, twenty years later,
many of the subcultural forms studied by the CCS still exist (although often in increasingly diversified and hybrid forms), not least because of their appearance on the net, in dedicated chat
rooms, as parts of personal websites, and as parts of the "official " websites maintained by bands whose music has attracted a subcultural following. Today, the relationship between subcultural
participants and their styles is markedly different from what it once was. In many cases, subcultural styles have either outlived or moved beyond the socio-political conditions of their original
emergence, thus the semiotic relationships between styles and what they originally signified have become severed, to the point where stylistic subcultural ensembles now hang in space - in
cyberspace - and can be selected, mixed-and-matched and adapted by each new subcultural affiliate to his or her own ends. That is to say, today, an inversion has occurred whereby styles now
assume primacy; they are collections of signifiers without firm signifieds, readily available over the internet for all to pursue and to manipulate and thus facilitate their own meanings. Originally,
theorists of subculture placed an emphasis on "resistance " and rebellion. Today, while such themes may still be important in a great many cases, I would like to shift that emphasis and stress
the importance of subcultural identity construction, using tools and contexts available in cyberspace (there are many recent publications that prove useful in this regard - cf.: Wallace: The
Psychology of the Internet (1999); Gordon: The Internet: A Philosophical Enquiry (1999). The emphases of my paper will be threefold: 1. An introductory ethnographic analysis of contemporary
youth subcultures, with particular attention paid to where they may be found in cyberspace; 2. A comparison of "cyber-versions" of subcultures with their more "earthbound" equivalents. It is
interesting to note how the internet has aided the perpetuation of many (sub)cultural forms that originally had no connection with cyberspace whatsoever. Some time will be spent examining
cross-referencing between cyberspace and "real " space; take, for example, the widespread promotion of websites in earlier media forms with already recognised positions as parts of
subcultural milieu, such as niche magazines, fanzines and CD covers. I maintain that these inter-relationships are mutually beneficial, resulting in a symbiosis between the cyber- and the "real"
that enriches both, Further, the uses and limitations of the net in the perpetuation of subcultures are, to a large extent, dictated by individuals access to technology. Reconfigurations of
subcultures' socio-economic makeups are also occurring as a result of their promulgation over the intemet. This issue is of particular interest given that the original, CCCS theorisations of
subcultures stated that they were all decidedly working-class forms. There is now considerable evidence to the contrary, not least the existence of youth subculture on the internet at all, given
the obvious correlations between technological have-nots and financial have-nots. (The extent and nature of the gap between technological information "haves" and "have nots "is addressed in
detail in Everard's Virtual States (2000)); 3. Because of the relative anonymity of cyberspace (see, again, Wallace's The Psychology of the Internet), it provides hitherto unavailable
opportunities for people interested in subcultural participation to test various subcultural identities without firm commitment. Examples of internet sites where such "tests" might be conducted
will be provided, along with discussion of the tests\rquote relative validities (for example: how easily are "real " Ravers distinguishable from "cyber-only " Ravers in a chat room?; and how
much can "chatroom Raving" really help a potential Raver develop their chosen subcultural identity?). It is hoped that this paper will facilitate, not only a greater understanding of the
potentials held out by the internet to youth subcultures, but also a heightened awareness of the fruitful and (I would argue) essential cultural interactions between the cyber- and the "real
"Cyberspace and Youth Cultural Styles Brad Warren, M.A. (Dip. Ed.). Deakin University, Australia Analyzing data from focus groups and in-depth interviews with African American and
Euro-American teens who have participated in Internet teen chat rooms, this paper examines how teens talk about diversity and difference in their social circles, and how they discuss what
happens when they meet other young people online. While I detail some of what I believe are the advantages of my methodology, the paper also explores some of the conundrums of
conducting offline qualitative research about online practices. In particular, I consider the constraints on conversations of difference in light of both the public scripts of tolerance and the ways in
which the researcher is interpreted by the research participant in interview situations.Online Bonds and Offline Boundaries: Teens and discussions of difference Lynn Schofield Clark,
Post-Doctoral Fellow and Research Associate Center for Mass Media Research, University of Colorado German discourse on race and ethnicity, both in the past and in the present, failed to
develop usable theoretical frameworks for the Black German community. This paper attempts to frame a developing discourse on German racial identity that is taking place on the listserv of the
Black German Cultural Society. Due to the lack of race as a central category in German identity, and because of the cultural and historical connotations of the German word asse' (race), namely
its association with the mass murder of over six million Jewish people, the American discourse of racial identity will be applied to the Afro-German cultural and historical context in order to
frame Black German identity with theoretical concepts that allow Afro-Germans to express their distinct identity both as blacks and Germans. The paper will focus on the hazards as well as
opportunities of the Internet and its electronic discussion lists for the fruitful discussion of identity for the Black German community. The majority of the discussion on this listserv is in English,
largely because many of the participants currently reside in the United States or because English is one of their mother tongues since some of their parents are African American. Issues such as
American cultural imperialism regarding a discourse on blackness as well as the dominance of the English language in discussions about racial identity both on- and offline, especially in the
context of Black Diaspora Studies, will be addressed in this paper. Cultural diversity in cyberspace will be addressed through an analysis of the complex relations between the dominance of
English and Anglo-American discourses and discussion on racial identities outside the English speaking world.The Digital Voice of Black Germany: Opportunities and Dangers of an Online
Discussion on Afro-German Identity Isabell Cserno Department of American Studies, University of Maryland This interactive presentation will invite the audience to participate in building a
"cyber Center" devoted to diversity using an offline contribution form (see samples enclosed). I will offer practical insights to on-line community building activities, explaining our use of on-line
volunteers and methods of including those not yet on-line. I will share insights gleaned from building our site. A "Cyber Center" is a website that is able through its content to attract a new
audience to a growing community and to sort and present the many related websites of its extended community to its growing membership in an entertaining and useful manner. It is a hub for
a targeted audience and the sites seeking their traffic. It creates opportunities for discourse and meeting similar to the BBS of the eighties but on a global scale using graphics as well as text.
Any community growing around a topical area will likely find a number of such sites actively promoting the community's growth. We are positioning the website of the Uptown Multi-Cultural Art
Center as a "Cyber Center" for a "Community of Diversity" on the Internet. Our presentation will explain how we are accomplishing the foundation for this endeavor on a shoestring budget.
ART-ACT, our Anti-Racist T-shirt Art Contest Tour, is an international art contest seeking graphic black & white images on the theme of pro-diversity/anti-racist reflections. It is an outgrowth of
our summer-long annual "Art of the T-shirt " exhibit series shown in Chicago public libraries for ten years and our seven year old "Screen Print Workshop for Artists " program. ART-ACT is the
focus of our on-line community building effort. Our need to build the involvement of artists and our audience not yet on-line encourages us to create interactive opportunities that include artists
and the public who are as yet untouched by the Internet. Through the interaction that results - this on-going activity has the potential to attract global interest and new audiences to our topic
area promoting the activity and information on other related sites. ART-ACT is a series of web pages presenting art work by artists submitting to our theme contest. Artists may submit on-line
or off-line. Below each featured art work on-line are three opportunities for the public to help build our content. First - you - the public - may write comments on the issues presented in the art
work, building over time a discussion around each work. Second, links to articles or essays related to the issues reflected in the art are solicited for listing below the art. Third, space is provided
to list related websites. Below all this is a final link to a page of links providing solutions to hatred for those who wish to create change. ART-ACT and the website segment it is building will
continue beyond the length of this contest. We intend to seek funding to repeat this contest and to continue to show previously submitted work by artists with their blessings. As the body of art
builds around our themes of Diversity and Anti-Racism, our networked community and traffic will also grow. We intend to continue to seek out ways to publish the opinions and to involve those
off-line as well as those on-line. Through our interactive forms we will invite those attending our presentation and the conference to contribute. We hope this activity will help in bridging the
digital divide and to building a stronger Community of Diversity on the World Wide Web. Our initial results and future plans will be included in this presentation Building a Cyber Center with
Community art Chris Drew Uptown Multi-Cultural Art Center, Chicago What do terms like "Race" and "Gender," "Ethnicity," "Nationality" and "Geographic location mean in the context of
cyberspace/cyberculture? If, as the famous New Yorker cartoon says, "on the Internet no one knows you're a dog," why bother with theories of culture and difference when discussing
computer-mediated-communication? One of my co-travelers in cyberspace has the following signature file attached to his email messages: > New Yorker Cartoon (Internet Savvy Dog): > "On
the Internet, no one knows that you're a dog." > Art McGee (Intemet Ignorant Dog added to cartoon): > "What's wrong with being a dog?" This signature file questions the need for us to
disguise who we are. Indeed, why should it be assumed that it is wonderful for "dogs" - women, colored people, and people on the periphery of the westemized logics of consumerism - to be
able hide who they are and to be able to disguise their gender, race and culture in favor of passing as white? Transnational/travelling subjects at the present time in history come into being at
the intersection of traveling analogue and digital contexts within what has come to be termed as the Digital Economy. Constructs of identity and ignorance occur within a discursive framing of
the Internet and digital technologies that allows the nconnected in the present to be negatively equated with the lliterate of the past" (Wamick 5). Furthermore, "silence" online as well as the
inability to coherently articulate self-identity within discursively and socially available categories and subject positions, while adhering to the prevailing dictates of "nettiquette within online
contexts could construct even the "connected" as "ignorant" or marginally connected. The Internet is situated within an Anglo-American hegemony which emphasizes the importance of modern
Science and Technology for individual empowerment and privileges the discursive production of "whiteness" as a mode of assimilation/equality. In addition, mainstream discourses (for example,
see Negroponte and Tapscott) that surround the use of technology are immersed in Utopian narratives, rooted in Enlightenment narratives of Progress, which are also implicit in notions of
"Development" and "Underdevelopment that divide the world into spatial hierarchies of the "developed North" as opposed to the "underdeveloped South." These mainstream celebratory
discourses regarding technology are immersed in a technological imaginary (Robbins, 1995) that which is an "intoxication" with the notion that technology will deliver us from the imperfections
of our present world. In a climate where technology service industries such as those that recruit and "traffic" in immigrant programmers (outsourcing, offshoring etc) are becoming increasingly
crucial to the functioning of a "Global" digital economy, what are the socio-economic and cultural contradictions in relation to race, class and gender, that emerge? The Digital Economy operates
against an optimistic (euphoric) backdrop. Objectives of the architects of Digital Capitalism are "to develop an economy wide network that can support an ever-growing range of intracorporate
and intercorporate business processes." (Dan Schiller, 1999) Various transnational issues occur at the intersection of configurations of power that emerge out of Digital Capitalism and
transnational labor flow. I ask - what might be dominant socio-cultural pattems and directions embedded in Digital Capitalism. will the implicit structuring of digital finance and e-commerce
allow for any kind of empowering or even "subversive" uses of technology as is being claimed by various technophiliacs around the world? This project examines digital communication at the
intersection of various existing theoretical frameworks, namely "global," "transnational," "international," "development," "subaltem studies," "feminist" and "postcolonial" approaches.keynote
Address: Transnational Digital Subjects: Constructs of identity and ignorance in a Digital Economy Radhika Gajjala Bowling Green State University The increasing popularity of games played
online in real time by thousands of computer users has brought the construction of gender roles by the players into sharp focus. The elements of these games, as conceived by game authors,
programmers, and artists present players with conflicting values and perceived gender roles. The addition of various character races, aligned and, add another dimension of interaction. The
freedom allowed in game play, as a function of the game as well as the construction of player-characters by on-line users finds the environment of such gameplay rich in examples of how
gender and race are considered and constructed. Through an avatar of a moving cartoon-like characters, virtual bodies express notions of Western masculine and feminine behavior in group
interactions. The game , an example of such a massive multiplayer role playing game (MMRPG), is the focus of my study of gender roles and construction in this medium. The game's parent
company, Sony Corporation, claims that Everquest has a subscriber base of 50,000 individuals and there can be as man y as 12,000 people on line at any given time playing this game in real
time. Players interact with one another on chat screens as they play the game, the goal of which is to gain levels of "experience" and obtain in-game money and items. The game is constructed
to have both male and female characters of a number of fantasy races, which include good and evil elves, humans, trolls. Ogres, Erudites (a race of African-American appearing humans),
Halflings (adopted from Tolkien's fantasy fiction), dwarfs, and gnomes. Female characters in the game are drawn with very obvious female characteristics: large breasts, tiny waists, and
protruding buttocks. They are dressed as a basic character in bikini outfits or harem-type clothing (as Barbara Eden wore in ). Male characters are drawn with bulging muscles if they are in
human form, and wear a significant amount of more clothing than the basic female characters. Both male and female drawings both as three dimensional characters and the art on the display
box are obviously meant to evoke sexual imagery. Players can choose to play either a male or female character. Despite the obvious gender differences, the characters are designed to have no
differences in game play-playing abilities are the same for either. Once players create a character as a virtual body in cyberspace and give it a personal name and identity, players give the
character their own the notions of male and female behavior. The issues that arise from individuals who play the game through their characters, as virtual bodies in space, is what makes the
study of on-line gaming so fascinating. Computer mediated communication highlights the dimensions of anonymity, distance, and the breakdown of age barriers. As the interaction s between
players unfold, the expectation of gender roles, both male and female, come sharply into play. Women characters may be discriminated against as being less than good fighters; sexist language
is rampant, often placing women in traditional roles of yecandy' rather than equal partners in play; sexual harassment and even virtual rape is not uncommon. Players are anonymous and it is
not possible to tell the age or gender of players during gameplay; however, the treatment of women characters reflects many of the gender roles that occur outside of the virtual world. The
designers of Everquest made an attempt to create a virtual world that was not encumbered with male and female differences; the players have taken that world and shaped it into a reflection
of their own attitudes toward gender and the roles of men and women in a society. It is both chilling and enlightening to see how players from all over the world establish a society where
gender roles and characteristics are aligned with those espoused in traditional Western culture. This paper explores some of the interactions in the virtual environment of Everquest, using
qualitative methods of observation and interviews with players. I explore gender roles and the explication of gender in game play, with attention to the roles male and female characters adopt
as they animate the virtual bodies of their characters. My paper will include general demographics of game players, on-line interactions, and an analysis of the construction of gender in the
world of Everquest. The Construction of Gender and Race in a Massive Multiplayer On-Line Role Playing Game Mindy Miron Basi, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign evilgood
Everquest! Dream of Jeannie This joint paper will look at the construction of identity in an online community formulated through sexual difference. Cyberspatial communities have many
components and constitute varying levels of community. This paper will examine a self defined, lesbian community, which collates home pages, provides chat forums and presents information
and entertainment specifically for groups defined through sexual difference. The focus of this study will be on the construction and performance of identity in relation to coming out on-line.
Coming out is a central narrative to lesbian identity. In considering the implications of coming out in an on-line community issues of private and public space are central. Coming out on-line can
be seen as both an alternative to and augmentation of, coming out off-line. The paper will question whether on-line communities sustain performative utterances. For instance in what ways are
statements of sexual identity in on-line and off-line sites equivalent? The concepts of both performative and descriptive utterances will inform this analysis. In order to address how sexualised
bodies emerge in virtual spaces an analysis of how users present themselves on-line will be made. The signifiers used, perceived levels of acceptance and rejection, and the construction of
boundaries will be considered. In this analysis the production, fostering and performance of community on-line will be viewed through the themes of risk and connectivity. Virtually Belonging:
Risk, Connectivity and Coming Out On-line E. H Bassett and K. O'Riordan University of Brighton The post-gender identities is a term taken from the "classical" work of Donna J. Haraway, The
Manifesto for the Cyborgs, 1991, about the late twentieth century identites as a recognition of the world without gender. (p. 150) The construction of gender in the Cyberspace and the resulting
identities we are going to investigate, are taken from the following Philip K. Dick's novels: Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep?, 1968; The Simulacra, 1964; Dr. Bloodmoney, or How We Got
Along After Bomb, 1965; Ubik, 1969; Galactic Pot-Healer, 1969; and The Man Whose Teeth Were Exactly Alike, 1984. The cyborgs, hybrids, chimeras, androids and other identites that are
apearing in the Philp Dick's novels invoke the nature/culture reduction, and the body/machine polarity; Deckard, the main character from "Blade Runner", movie based on the Philip K. Dick: Do
the Androids Dream about the Electric Sheeps? says: "She didn't know that she is a replicant", meaning that the self-reflection is bluring human/animal/machine boundaries; but also
male/female polarity is in the question. During the test Rachel argues: "Are you trying to find out if I am a replicant, or a lesbian?" Philip K. Dick's identities are body texts, codes, and you can
no longer say who is a man and who is a machine; or who is male or female. It leads to the new distribution of power, and is not only dependant on "the myth of original uniity"(p. 151,
Harraway), but it goes the step beyond the myth, because the concept of the cyberspace includes the ultimately liberating concept that rejects (gender) supposedly masculine iconography. The
few questions we will try to answer during the work will be: In what way the notions of cyborgs and coded text are represented, without the notion of the "other" or even the gender itself? Why
will the Para-Olympic games be more important in the future? What is the role of the modern medical technology? Is biotechnology a metaphor in the Philip Dick's work, or is it becoming a
reality? Can a human being produce the object of knowledge that will reduce the line between the humans and machines? Why is it that every step beyond this boundary actually represents a
search for a common language? The following theoretical literature will be used: Donna J. Haraway, Simians, Cyborgs and Women and Primate Vision; La Mettrie: Man a Machine; Gilbert Herdt,
Third Sex, Third Gender; G. Deleuze/EGuattari: A Thousand Plateaus; J. F. Lyotard, The Inhuman; Leslie C. Jones, Transgressive Femininity: Art and Gender in the Sixties and Seventies;
Martine Rothblatt, Apartheid of Sex, and A Manifesto on the Freedom of Gender; K. Bornstein, On Man, Women, and the Rest of Us; Kessler L. The Medical Construction of Gender. The
Post-Gender Identities as a Metaphor: Gender Construction in the Cyberspace Jasna Koteska Central European University, Budapest, Hungary This paper addresses the relationship between
the public access of the Internet for many blacks, Hispanics. and Native Americans in Chicago s Lakeview Area and their experiences of the Intemet content. While Asians/Pacific Islanders and
Whites have relatively greater access at to the Internet at home Native Americans, Blacks, and Hispanics [as those who have relatively lower incomes, education levels, and/or levels of
employment] tend to access the Internet at public facilities, such as schools and libraries. Do the public nature of their surfing the 30 minutes time constraints, and class differentiation affect
their experience of Internet sites? These groups are said to engage in online activities that can result in their economic advancement, such as taking educational courses, engaging in school
research, or conducting job searches, but how do they surf entertainment sites. Looking at Intemet users at Chicago public libraries, I examine both the sites lower income and education
Native Americans, Blacks. and Hispanics surf on the Internet and how they "experience" the content of sites. I argue that they experience these sites differently due to the public nature of their
surfing and the bourgeoisie content of most of these sites.Surfing in Public: Race, Public Access, and the Internet Experience Elizabeth Tunstall Sapient Corporation During the fall of 1999, two
of my sections of the first half of the American History survey used the web to role-play people of various ethnic backgrounds. This was as part of a web-based historical simulation that was an
extension of my interest in having students write about various historical issues from the "historical first person." This simulation took this approach one step further by assigning students
various multicultural roles and allowing them to interact with one another in a historical context throughout the course of the semester. (The site is available at:
www.simpson.edu/~proctom/croatan). The simulation began in the late 17th century. At the outset, I assigned each student a family; they were then responsible for making key decisions for
that family (where to live, how to eat, how to participate in politics, etc.). When they made these decisions they needed to consider factors like race, gender, property, location, and family
composition. They took these actions in the context of historical developments like the development of the market, the American Revolution, and industrialization, which, they soon realized,
looked quite different depending on your position in society. The reactions of my students to this imposition of "virtual cultural diversity" were quite varied. For the most part, they expected the
class to be a survey of great accomplishments by great white men. A few were taken aback when confronted with the challenges of taking the role of an enslaved Ibo woman or a family of
Senecas. At first, some students were paralyzed by the exoticism of their families. One student admitted. "I can't think of any black women before Rosa Parks." Another asked, "What can I do
as an Indian, die?" While some students expressed their frustration, others pitched into the project with gusto and began researching subjects as varied as Seneca burial customs, the internal
economy of slavery and African drum communications. Later in the semester, several families of (virtual) African decent attempted to coordinate a slave uprising. The brutal suppression that
followed came down hard on several African-American families who knew nothing of the conspiracy. Their outrage in the classroom -- "why are we being punished just because we are black?" --
brought the injustice of slavery and racism home with dramatic force that ordinary lectures, class discussions, and readings rarely equal. Interestingly, the students playing these particular
families were all white. I would like to present a paper that describes the project and the experiences of my students. Several of the themes of your conference instantly suggest themselves,
but two, the construction of race in cyberspace and teaching issues of diversity in cyberspace, seem like perfect fits. Presenting a paper at this conference would be particularly rewarding since
it would offer an opportunity tor informed discussion about these issues. Other scholars would undoubtedly have valuable suggestions for how I might improve the simulation for future
use."Black like virtual me: student reactions to online cultural diversity" Nicolas Proctor Simpson College Between the fall of 1998 through the present, various popular media publications
have reported on the MP3 technology and an assortment of issues related to the technology. Most of the articles about MP3 focus on one or several selected topics including defining the
technology technically, describing its practical usage for consumers and assessing the current and potential controversies MP3 has generated among record companies, recording artists and
MP3 users. The purpose of this paper is to give an overview of the technology and its related controversies, including high profile court cases and record industry responses. This paper also
introduces several issues relevant to the integration of MP3 including the recording industry's historic relationship with recording technology and consumers and the "real world" impact this
technology will have in how the public listens to music and accesses developing Intemet-related technologies with a particular focus on the "digital divide."The Revolution Will (Probably) Not Be
Digitized: An Overview and Analysis of MP3 and the Recording Industry Vincent Stephens University of Maryland at College Park During the better half of the last decade, the majority of
scholarship in the interdisciplinary field of cyberculture has taken two major approaches. The first attempts to situate cyberspace within its proper historical and cultural context, focusing
especially on the economic and institutional considerations of the development and subsequent flourishing of cyberspace. The second examines the digital domain as an already existing site of
interaction, exploring the ways in which users communicate with one another, from communities of shared interests, and experiment with online identities. Significantly, not to mention
surprisingly, the two approaches are seldom brought together. This presentation offers a theoretical framework with which to explore cultural diversity and/on the Internet. Building off of Stuart
Hall's Encoding-Decoding model, this presentation suggests that cyberspace is best understood within a number of instances, including an online environments' moment of inception,
subsequent design, and application by users. Framing my discussion within the study of two such environments the - Blacksburg Electronic Village and the Seattle Community Network - I hope
to reveal the relevance and utility of Hall's model. In particular, I wish to argue that the potential for and limitations to cultural diversity within the BEV and the SCN is informed significantly by
the ways in which the respective networks were developed, designed, and implemented. Encoding/Decoding Cyberspace: Towards a Theoretical Framework for Exploring Cultural Diversity In and
Out of the Net David Silver Department of American Studies, University of Maryland