1998 Bernard SUZANNE Last updated January 3, 1999 Plato and his dialogue: and - - - Map of dialogues : or . Tools : - and chronologies - . Site information : . Home Biography
Works links to them History of interpretation New hypotheses table version non tabular version Index of persons and locations Detailed synoptic Maps of Ancient Greek World About the author
 Synoptic chronology of Greek Thinkers and Writers This synopsis presents a visual chronology of some of the Greek writers and thinkers that preceeded, were contemporaries of, and
followed Socrates and Plato, allowing to quickly see in what order they lived and who was contemporary of whom. It also includes for context some of the most prominent political leaders of the
time. The dates are associated with the Olympiad numbers that were used as reference by the Greek themselves. The reader must be warned that many of the dates of birth and death here
provided are only tentative, and may differ in different sources, sometimes (such as with Parmenides, for instance) by several years. The purpose of this synopsis is not to pretend to utmost
accuracy, or to suggest new datings, but to provide a feel for who might have been contemporary of whom. Accordingly, the dates used were those available from widely available history books
or encyclopediae, and I didn't try to ascertain these before using them. To get a more "concrete" feel for this chronology, a down to Plato's last years puts it in parallel with modem times
assuming 1999 to be the year of Dion's assassination, that is 354 8. C. (7 years before Plato's death). In it, you will see that this puts Socrates trial at the height of McCarthyism (1954),
Marathon the same year as Gettysburg (1863), that it makes Socrates a contemporary of FDR, Parmenides a contemporary of Nietzsche, and much more... modified version of this page The
political leaders listed are : , , King of Macedon (the dates are those of his reign on Persia), , , Tyrant of Syracuse, , , , Alcibiades Alexander the Great Darius the Great Demosthenes Dionysius
1, the Elder Pericles Solon Themistocles 52