Adverse Reactions Spironolactone -induced hyperkalemia can cause life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias, and it is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, or
in geriatric patients. Signs and symptoms of hyperkalemia include reduced muscular weakness, paresthesia, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, sinus bradycardia, shock, and ECG
changes. Patients who receive potassium supplements or patients with impaired renal function who are also receiving spironolactone therapy are particularly at risk for developing hyperkalemia,
and periodic serum electrolyte, creatinine, and BUN determinations should be made. If hyperkalemia occurs, spironolactone should be discontinued immediately, and specific measures should
be taken to reduce serum potassium levels. Spironolactone therapy alone usually does not affect electrolyte levels other than potassium, but hyponatremia can result from a combination of
spironolactone with other diuretic therapy. Spironolactone A reversible hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis can occur in patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis who are receiving
spironolactone. This effect is usually associated with hyperkalemia and can occur regardless of renal function. is similar in structure to steroid compounds and can produce some of the same
adverse effects. In men, spironolactone may cause gynecomastia, libido decrease, and impotence (erectile dysfunction). Women taking spironolactone may experience menstrual irregularity,
postmenopausal bleeding, breast tenderness or mastalgia, hirsutism, deepened voice, and amenorrhea. Such endocrine effects may produce a medication-induced infertility. These effects
usually are reversible following discontinuance of therapy. Spironolactone While 2 cause-and-effect relationship has not been established for the development of a secondary malignancy, breast
cancer has been reported in patients receiving spironolactone. Adverse Gl effects reported during spironolactone therapy include anorexia, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, gastritis, abdominal pain,
gastric bleeding, and ulceration. Adverse nervous system effects that have been reported in patients receiving spironolactone therapy include headache, drowsiness, lethargy, ataxia,
weakness, and mental confusion. Muscular weakness may be a sign of drug-induced hyperkalemia. Other adverse effects reported with spironolactone therapy include azotemia, renal
dysfunction, renal failure (unspecified), fever, urticaria, maculopapular rash, erythema, azotemia, and, rarely, agranulocytosis. Due to the diuretic action of spironolactone, polyuria can be
troublesome for some patients during therapy. [ Last revised: 6/6/2002 ]