TICO SITE MAP _Do not go where the path might lead. Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. --Ralph Waldo Emerson DID YOU KNOW Of all the Essex class carriers built
for service in WWII, none were ever sunk by the enemy. Several, including Ticonderoga, suffered major damage but all survived the war and beyond. WHAT'S A HEAD?? Well, if you've got
any nautical experience you know that a "head" is the bathroom. But did you know this: Not many people know that Edison was an avid fisherman. He usually included some trout fishing in
his infrequent vacations. During one such trip to the west he was befriended by a native American tribe. They provided free room and board, as well as expert fishing guides for his stay. On
his first night he discovered that the only sanitary facility was an old-fashioned outhouse. To make things worse it had no light even though the village had electricity in the homes. As a
thank-you gift for their kindnesses, Edison purchased the necessary materials and personally installed lighting in the their privy. He thus became the first person to wire a head for a
reservation, Love cures people--both the ones who give it and the ones who receive it. =-Dr. Karl Menninger Any man who may be asked in this century what he did to make his life
worthwhile, can respond with a good deal of pride and satisfaction, "I served in the United States Navy" President John F. Kennedy, August 1, 1963, US Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD.
PHOTOS Lots of graphics here--this may be a "slow" page to open but it's worth it Tico Launch Launch of Ticonderoga at Newport News Shipbuilding on February 7, 1944 New Angle Deck
Fresh out of the yards in March, 1957 with her new angle deck Bob Hope Show Bob Hope, Anita Bryant, Joey Hetherton, Diana Linn Bats in 1965 Shellback Ceremony April 15, 1971 on the
equator in the western Pacific The fifth Ticonderoga was CG47. She was the Navy's first Aegis Cruiser. She was decommissioned in 2004 Another neat shot of CG 47 A good 1955 shot before
the angle flight deck was added Tico in Gibraltar in 1955 A snowy inport period in Naples in 1955 Another preangle shot