Elliptical Trainers Fitness ellipticals are of the highest quality. The down side of the Life Fitness ellipticals is the warranties could be better for the price you are paying. The last model mentioned
the Life Fitness Sport Model gives you a lifetime warranty on the frame, two years on the parts, and one year on the labor. All the other models mentioned above have the same warranty,
lifetime on the frame, two years on the parts, and one year on the labor. The Life Fitness ellipticals X3, and X3i, are at the lower end of the six models. They are built very durable and are
under three thousand dollars. The X3i has four more programs than the X3 and is slightly better. The Life Fitness XS, and the Life Fitness XSi, have something called the Select Stride, which
means that you can select from four different settings, sprint, run, jog, and walk. These ellipticals may last a lifetime, they are built that well. They are amoung the heaviest ellipticals made, so
after they are put together, don't plan on moving them often. The Life Fitness X9i has eighteen programs and seven personal programs. The quality is said to be that of a commercial gym
machine. This is one of the absolute best elliptical that money can buy. These ellipticals are quiet and very stable units. The last model, the Life Fitness Elliptical Sports Cardio SX30 is at the
lowest end that the Life Firness company makes. It is an average elliptical trainer at best and so if you are considering this model you may also want to check out other competitive makes. All
things considered it's hard to top the quality and value of Life Fitness Ellipticals. .. Elliptical Trainers Life Fitness Elliptical Life Fitness Elliptical The Life Fitness company makes six different

models. They are the Life Fitness Elliptical X3, the Life Fitness Elliptical X3i, the Life Fitness Elliptical XS, the Life Fitness Elliptical XSi, the Life Fitness Elliptical x9i, and the Life Fitness Elliptical
Sports Cardio SX30. These machines are at the higher end of ellipticals and the Life