The Online University Experience at AMU Who is the typical student? Our more than 40,000 students are studying online from 100 countries. Most are adult learners, holding positions within
every branch and specialty within the military, and at organizations that include the State Department, the New York Police Department (NYPD), and the Transportation Security Agency (TSA),
just to name a few. While we serve a variety of students seeking liberal arts and professional studies degrees, we have a specialized program focus in the areas of homeland security, national
security and public safety. Take a look at just a few of our student . career stories WhatLIs inside the electronic campus? Once you become a student and log into the secure campus, you

will be welcomed into a typical academic community of fellow students, professors, staff, and administrators. On the campus homepage, you will be alerted to important University news from
the registrar, administration, and more. Registration dates and other important calendar events will be displayed, and you can download and submit University forms here. With a click of a
mouse, you can view and print your personalized degree path and profile. Here, you will track your academic progress, update personal information, order transcripts, and more. What is the
classroom like? As a student, you will enter your individual classrooms from the campus homepage. Inside the dlassroom, you obtain assignments, write papers, conduct research, take tests
and exchange information just like in a traditional class 1 except itUs done online. Professors use a variety of teaching methods, including: posting weekly lecture notes, linking to videos and
Web sites, providing access to research information, and initiating asynchronous class discussions and group projects. . Take a virtual tour of the classroom What are the UniversityLs
technology requirements? Essentially, you need access to a computer and an Internet connection. ItLis that simple. To ensure your virtual experience is optimal, check out our . technology
requirements chart How do I take exams? If the course requires you to take an exam, the professor will determine whether or not the exam requires a proctor. Often, you will choose a proctor
who monitors and validates the exam. You will never have to physically travel to a campus or other location to take your exams. Do I ever have to physically go to a campus? No. Period. How
do I contact professors and fellow students? Students contact fellow classmates and professors via emall, through posting opportunities inside their classrooms, or via telephone. Professors
encourage contact through email any day, any time and telephone calls for additional feedback. What if I get deployed? Afraid of losing credits when you PCS? About to be deployed? No
problem. AMU goes with you wherever you go. All of the courses are delivered over the Internet. Our students are located in 100 countries, and thousands are currently deployed. The
asynchronous course delivery means no specific login times are required. Simply log on and download your assignments when its convenient for you during the week. What resources are
available to students to help them succeed? Students have a multitude of state-of-the-art resources at their fingertips. In our Online Library, you will find a Tutorial Center with specialized
instructional modules for your studies and access to personalized Web training services. A series of Departmental Study Portals offers tailored links for research in advanced sites on the Open
and Invisible Web. You will also encounter a searchable online catalog with thousands of electronic books. In addition, we provide access to runs of over 12,000 of the leading academic
electronic journals and databases. These feature ProQuest's complete Research Library, ABI-Inform, Criminal Justice Collection, and PsycARTICLES. Ebsco provides its Academic Search Elite,
Military & Government, and Security Management & Terrorism packages. You can work too in a growing list of other offerings, including: ABC-Clio's U.S. at War, CIAO's International Affaris,
Elsevier's Health & Life Sciences, Emerald Management, Granger's Poetry, Loislaw, and Lexis-Nexis. What are alumni doing professionally with their AMU degrees? AMU alumni are working all
over the globe in a variety of leadership positions. You will find them in a variety of fields, including intelligence, security management, military management, government agencies and
contractors, and more. AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the and
nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council 2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles
Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 || | 111 |