Contacts About IN-SPIRETM The IN-SPIRETM discovery tool integrates information visualization with query and other interactive capabilities. In the Galaxy visualization (upper right), dots
represent documents and cluster around center points that represent central topics or themes, like constellations in the sky. The ThemeViewTM visualization (lower right) provides an even faster
way to get a visual overview of a collection of data. Users see a relief map where the highest peaks represent the most prevalent topics in the collection. People have the natural ability to
rapidly comprehend visual images. To make the most of this skill, researchers at PNNL have developed IN-SPIRETM and other creative and powerful approaches to present different kinds of data
in visual displays. IN-SPIRETM can quickly and automatically convey the gist of large sets of unformatted text documents such as technical reports, web data, newswire feeds and message
traffic. IN-SPIRETM can handle real-time data by adding new documents as they arrive. It also processes foreign language data and provides robust support for translation. By clustering similar
documents together, this Windows-based software unveils common themes and reveals hidden relationships within the collection. IN-SPIRETM allows analysts to spend more time exploring the
information they find most relevant and less time sifting through the masses of irrelevant documents. IN-SPIRETM analyzes a multitude of text files and determines key topics or themes in each
to create a signature for each document in the collection. IN-SPIRE's two main visualizations display representations of the documents in which those with similar or related topics appear closer
together. The Galaxy visualization uses the metaphor of the stars in the night sky with each star representing an individual document. The ThemeViewTM visualization uses 2 3-dimensional
terrain map display to provide a high-level overview of the data. Search tools in IN-SPIRETM support simple queries, phrase queries, and queries with example text. Other tools help to explore
trends over time and relationships between concepts. All of the tools in IN-SPIRETM leverage the power of the Galaxy and ThemeViewTM visualizations. Additional Resources - Illustrated and
annotated guide to icons, windows, and menus. IN-SPIRETM Help - Conversational guide to getting started with the analysis of documents. Tips and Techniques IN-SPIRETM