News Workshops 2009 and 2010 at 9 a.m., we shall convene at Swan House in Presidio, Texas, to build the adobe walls for an addition to the house at the west patio. A cement bond beam,
like a ribbon around the structure, will be poured at a height of 7 feet, later supporting the 6 foot high Nubian vault. Participants will learn how to mix the mud mortar, how to lay brick with
sufficient mortar and how to key the bricks at the comers. We will take precise measurements for the placement of fenestration: two French doors and one window onto the patio. Efren
Rodriguez, maestro in adobe building and plastering from across the Rio Grande in Ojinaga, Mexico, will lead us. Students who can collaborate for the entire two weeks will have priority. at 9
a.m, we shall begin the Nubian vault-building workshop under the skilled tutoring of alumnus Stevan de la Rosa of Baja California. This long-awaited and exciting endeavor will be limited to 8
participants. More information gladly given on request. run $100 a day for long weekends, $400 a week, and can be negotiated personally according to length of time spent learning hands-on
at Swan House in Presidio, Texas. maximum three at wall-building workshop, no fee, send application to February 27th, 2009 October 16th, 2009 Fees for studentsIntems:
swan@adobealliance.org Directions, Meals and Lodging: See . Registration & Lodging An early DEPOSIT of $100 to the non-profit Adobe Alliance, Inc., will allow us to reserve a slot for each
student, thus helping to cover in advance the expenses of preparatory work. A workshop in dome and vault building is being discussed with architect . In the works as well is a week-long
teaching and hands-on session at the architecture school of the Universidad Autonoma, Juarez, Mexico. Dates to be announced.2010 Workshops: Abdel Hamid for 2010 in Cairo News Archive
 Because of flooding in the Presidio Valley, in Ojinaga, Mexico across the river, because the bridge across the Rio Grande was closed for six weeks, interns schedules to help prepare for the
workshop and Simone's arrival had to be postponed. She found damage to the house's earth plaster by violent rains and winds which were generated by hurricane Gustav in the Pacific. The
foundation for the projected addition was built on . It has to dry for 3-4 weeks. No walls will be built or vault either. This was concentrated on replastering the entire house. Our last earth
plaster of straw, prickly pear juice, clay and horse manure lasted eight years with relatively little damage. October 26th, 2008fall 2008 workshop On at the Central Public Library of Santa Fe,
New Mexico, Simone Swan will gave a presentation on earth architecture entitled . She spoke about studying in Egypt with Hassan Fathy and her adobe work in the Chihuahuan desert when
she created the Adobe Alliance in Presidio, TexasSeptember 23rd, 2008"From The Nile To The Rio Grande" For the we built a small demonstration vault against an existing wall. It is the
beginning that is tricky, how to place the first half-brick at the correct angle, and how to use an appropriate amount of mortar. Everyone participated in handling the adobes and placing them.
By the end of Sunday afternoon the vault was completed, then removed.March 14-17, 2008, workshop Simone gave a power point presentation and actually built, with high school students, 2
small Nubian vault at the . To an enthusiastic and large audience on January 18th, she presented the work of Adobe Alliance and met adobe enthusiasts who are enrolling in future workshops.
This event was organized at the invitation of board member Stanley Abercrombie in conjunction with his exquisite installation of Butabu, the superb exhibition of photos of mud architecture in
Djenne, Mali, by James Morris of Wales.Sonoma Valley (CA) Museum of Art Simone and Santa Fe architect Beverley Spears attended in Bamako, capital of the on the conservation and new
building of earth architecture. They toured the towns of Segou, Mopti and Djenne where the finest adobe structures in the south Sahara are to be found.Mali,5-day Getty conference The Adobe
Alliance workshop for was held at the Swan House & Lab in Presidio, Texas, but lasted until November 30th. Actual building instruction and experience took place across the Rio Grande in
Ojinaga, Chihuahua, Mexico, population about 20,000. Participants were from Japan, Corsica, Iran, Mexico, England, Arizona and 2 from Texas. For past information please see the , download
the or the .November 1-4, 2007 workshops page workshop poster workshop notes information packet The Adobe Alliance has been retained to design a student union at the Buddhist center of
Diamond Mountain in Bowie, east Arizona. Co-designer introduced to the project is Estevan Trujillo of e3designlab in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The client has opted for rammed earth walls to be
roofed by adobe brick vaults which Alliance workers and interns will build by hand. The book is now available. Written by Dennis Dollens, 2005 graduate of an Adobe Alliance workshop, it was
published in April 2006 by Lumen Books and is readily available from Amazon, together with a review. Here's a to the book. Johnnye Montgomery has posted an and about the Adobe Alliance to
the web. The Adobe Association of the Southwest held its AdobeUsa2007 conference in May 2007 in El Rito, New Mexico, near Santa Fe. It was attended by scholars and builders from Mexico
and South America as well as experts from the US. The board, which indudes Simone, is preparing for an enthusiastic 2008. For information consult www.Adobeasw.com."Simone Swan: Adobe
Building" direct link article photos The counted five architects, one architecture student from Texas A&M university and her mother, two civil engineers from San Luis Potosi, Mexico, four
alumni, and enthusiastic students in earth building from all over the map. Interns during preparations were Stevan de la Rosa from Mexico and Scott Rhodes from Austin, Texas; intems for two
weeks of building after the workshop were architect Jesus Robles from Arizona and his friend Will McCormick from New Mexico. A 14'x12' adobe brick vaulted roof was completed to shelter a
large plastic water tank. An 8ft wide arched doorway permits eventual removal of the tank and on the opposite wall facing south is a 2ft wide entrance. The structure is so beautiful it deserves
an appreciative human occupant but for the moment this is our best solution to hide the ugly tank.November 2006 workshop workshop in Presidio on the art and technique of building a Nubian
vaulted roof by hand, was, again, a huge success and attracted lively people of all ages (hardworking 10-year-old to my age) from places like Patagonia, AZ, Iran, Bulgaria, Oregon, students
from UT Architecture, Corsica -- all a treat to be with. We have photos in the gallery section!November 4-6, 2005, Simone presented her work to colleagues from Africa and South America at
the University of Santa Clara, Cuba, and at the Centro Universitario Echeverria near Havana. The conferences in Cuba were of immense interest and high quality. The first was on earth building
and included Gernot Minke whom I grew to like and admire enormously. Speakers from Ecuador (on preventive seismic damage to foundations of rammed earth buildings), Cuba (community
cooperative construction of schools,) Seychelles, Namibia and more were thorough, passionate and provided clear illustrations. The second was in Santa Clara on Eco-Materials. Presenters came
from Kenya, Switzerland, Turkey, Argentina, Brasil, Cuba of course, and appeared to me far ahead in research, application and thoroughness from the little I have witnessed here in the US.
Both conferences were super-efficiently organized by Paul Moreno of Quito. I have the emails of participants and shall be receiving more information. November 11-15, 2005, the Proyecto de
Alimentos y Semillas in Guatemala will query Simone on adobe building and the appropriate roofing in that climate.November 20,2005 , Jesusita Jimenez and Simone Swan were invited by
architect Marcela Perez of San Luis Potosi to teach campesinos -- subsistence farmers -- the construction of adobe roofs by hand.September 23 to October 7, 2005 awarded the Adobe Alliance
with their annual prize, this one for design excellence in mud architecture. On May 20, 2005, , founder of the AASW in El Rito, NM, presented Simone with a small roof adobe on a carved wood
mount at the group's third annual conference.In May 2005The Adobe Association of the SouthwestQuentin Wilson The annual conferences at the association are not to be missed. Speakers
come from afar, and simpatico attendees offer a vast amount of information and experiences to share, all in the peaceful and charming environment of the campus of the Northern New Mexico
College. Simone Swan gave a presentation entitled From The Nile To The Rio Grande, in Austin, Texas, at Women And Their Work Gallery, sponsored by The Texas Folklife Resources. Thirty
chairs were installed but 150 people came. Next she spoke at Project Row Houses in Houston and on KPFT, the Pacifica station in Houston. In March, 2005 The workshop was a huge success
and accounts can be read in The Desert Candle of March 15, '05, in my piece entitled The Merry Pranks of Scholarly Mud Freaks. Twenty-five interesting people -- permaculturalists, a biologist,
environmental historian, engineer, tile-maker, five young architects -- convened and got very muddy.February 18-21, 2005 A small dome was built in Santa Fe for .In November 2004Cristel
Blomquist the Adobe Alliance invited adobe builders, daubers and sundry enthusiasts to learn how to mix clay and straw with water, plus highly glutinous prickly pear cactus juice and horse
manure (we now suspect the manure attracts termites) for malleability. This was followed by instruction from Jesusita Jimenez and Joaquin Valenzuela on plastering walls and roofs by hand or
with trowel.In 2002 and 2003 Ms. Jimenez and Simone were invited by Athena and Bill Steen to demonstrate the building of mud roofs made by hand in the configuration of vaults and domes
to village women in the Mexican state of Sonora at Xochit! near Obregon. The skill was adopted with real success, the women having an affinity with the material and form rather than with
metal roofing.In the spring of 2001 Copyright  2008, Simone Swan. All rights reserved