For immediate release: July 10, 2007 New Study: Over 60% of PVC Packaging Violates Laws in 19 States Across the Country Elevated Levels of Toxic Lead and Cadmium Commonly Found in
PVC Packaging (New York, NY) A new national study released today found for the first time ever that over 60% of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) packaging tested contains toxic heavy metals that
violate state toxics in packaging laws in 19 states. Inks and colorants used on plastic shopping and mailing bags were the other packaging materials with frequently detected heavy metals. The
study was conducted by the , a network of nine state environmental agencies coordinating toxics in packaging legislation. Toxics In Packaging Clearinghouse This new study underscores the
need for a global phase out of PVC packaging, said Michael Schade, PVC Campaign Coordinator with the Center for Health, Environment and Justice. "PVC packaging contains heavy metals
that can harm our health and environment. Safer PVC-free packaging is widely available and innovative companies are eliminating this poison plastic." In response to PVCs health and
environmental impacts, many companies have publicly committed to eliminate PVC packaging. Wal-Mart has committed to phase out private label PVC packaging in two years. Other
companies eliminating PVC packaging include Aveda, Body Shop, Bristol Myers, Boots, Crabtree & Evelyn, Dean Foods, Dell, Estee Lauder, Evian, H&M, Helene Curtis, Hewlett Packard, Ikea,
Johnson and Johnson, Kiss My Face, Limited Brands (Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works), Marks and Spencer, Microsoft, Nike, Nokia, SC Johnson, Samsung, Sharp, and Sony. A national
coalition of over 60 health and environmental organizations are calling on Target to phase out PVC packaging and products. Since October, over 40,000 Target customers have signed petitions
and sent letters to the company and over 200 events have been held at Target stores across the country. Nineteen states have laws that prohibit the sale or distribution of packaging containing
intentionally added cadmium, lead, mercury, and hexavalent chromium. The states with this legislation are California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Maine, Minnesota,
Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin. (CHEJ) is working to prevent harm by shifting decision makers
from producing, using and disposing of PVC consumer products and packaging. CHE has worked with and convinced Microsoft, Johnson and Johnson, Wal-Mart, Crabtree & Evelyn, and other
companies to phase out their use of PVC in packaging. The Center for Health, Environment and Justice