Hoboken Cove Boathouse Friends and Links has been a big supporter of the Hoboken Cove Boathouse, and our first Boathouse will be located in the new Hoboken Cove Park. The City of
Hoboken, Department of Parks runs free kayaking programs across the river in New York City. Many of our volunteers are current and former members of the Downtown Boathouse, and we
have patterned a number of our programs after the programs they run. The Downtown Boathouse runs boat building and rowing programs throughout the New York Harbor. They are planning
an installation in Hoboken, and we look forward to seeing them on the water with us. Floating the Apple is a coalition of residents, parents, educators, workers, home and business owners and
community based organizations in the South Bronx dedicated to managing and revitalizing an important and unique open green space. Friends of Brook Park is an informative website that
describes park and open space issues in and around Hoboken. HobokenParks.org works through education, grassroots organizing and media advocacy to include the public's voice and values in
the decision-making that will determine the future of our region's waterfront and waterways. Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance Is a blog about "flotation, flotation, flotation" and has a huge list
of sidebar links to NYC waterfront related groups and activities. sea level :: new york Who are we? The Hoboken Cove Boathouse is a for the people of Hoboken. non-profitpublic boathouse
We are a dedicated group of , headed by long-time Hoboken resident Sandy Sobanski. Many of us are experienced kayakers and members of in Manhattan, our sister organization. Working
together, we've run the several free public kayaking programs over the last few years. volunteers The Downtown Boathouse All our activities are andcompletely freeopen to the public. We
would love to hear from you. Join our secure to get news and updates and learn how you can help. (We'll be posting all of our information on this website as well.) Mailing List You can always
your ideas, questions, and comments, but we'd also love to see you here on the site for everyone to see (). e-mail us post commentsespecially if you have nice things to say about us We'll be
posting photos and recaps from all our events on the site, so if you attend, come back and tell us (and everyone else) about the great time you had!