Native American tribes have lived and thrived upon the North American landscape for thousands of yearsong before there was a United States. Historically, about 500 distinct Native
languages were spoken in North America. Enjoy Native American culture and society explored at The WildWest.org. The names Native Americans and American Indians are used
interchangeably on this website to describe America's first inhabitants. In many cases "Indians" is a proper name or title such as in "American Indian Movement or "Bureau of Indian

Affairs". The name Indian was used traditionally in American culture and history. The term "Native American" became popular much later but both are commonly used today and neither
should be considered preferable over the other, although people do have personal preferences. Although the freedom of their ancient way of life has been lost, the religion, culture, legends,
and spirit of the American Indian will always endure. Lear more about the Apache, Blackfoot, Cherokee, Cheyenne, Lakota, and Pueblo Indian tribes. Read about Native American legends,
heroes, leaders (like Geronimo), and great battles (like Custers Last Stand). And understand the religions of the Blackfoot Indians and the Cheyenne, who Kachinas are, and the background of
The People (Navajo history). Enjoy the wisdom and peace that American Indian culture has with nature. First People: When the Europeans first came to North America in the 16th- and
17th-century, there were approximately ten million Indians populating this country. It is believed that the first Native Americans arrived during the last ice-age, approximately 20,000 - 30,000
years ago and that they came through a land-bridge across the Bering Sound, from northeastern Siberia into Alaska . The oldest documented Indian tribes or cultures in North America are
Sandia (15000 8C), Clovis (12000 8C) and Folsom (8000 BC) The name "Indian" was first applied by Christopher Columbus who believed mistakenly that the mainland and islands of America
were part of the Indies, in Asia. TheWildWest.org brings to you but a small part of Native American Indian history with the facts surrounding Native American people, the places which they
inhabited and inklings of their different cultures, legends, arts and crafts, supreme wisdom and love of nature.