The Voyager mission Uranus Atmosphere The atmosphere of Uranus is 84% molecular hydrogen gas, 14% helium gas, and 2% methane, with trace constituents of acetylene, hydrogen
cyanide and carbon monoxide. Its the methane that gives Uranus its serene blue color; methane absorbs red and longer wavelengths more than blue wavelengths. But there are a few
infrared windows through the methane absorptions. Views of Uranus through these windows peer deeper into the atmosphere than views in visible light and yield pictures of bright storm
systems. These false color images of both hemispheres of Uranus reveal the differing altitudes of clouds on Uranus. Three images were captured through infrared filters (at wavelengths of 1.3,
1.6, and 2.1 microns), sharpened, and combined. The color balance was chosen to make the highest-altitude clouds white, middle-altitude clouds greenish, and lowest-altitude clouds deep blue
This color balance choice is responsible for the bright red color of the rings, which are actually gray, not red. The south pole is to the left. The storm GS-37S shows up in the right image, at the
lower left of the globe. The band of clouds in the north of the same image is about 18,000 kilometers (11,000 miles) long. Credit: Lawrence Sromovsky / W. M. Keck Observatory Click to
enlarge > Uranus in the infrared Uranus storms tend to show up in alleys of storm activity within one latitude band. Some of the storms seem to persist for a long period of time; one storm,
dubbed the Great Spot at 375, or GS-37S, may have persisted from the time of the Voyager 2 flyby in 1986 to recent Hubble and Keck II observations. Other douds seem to bloom and
disappear over periods of only days. The changes in Uranus circulation patterns being seen today are not explained by present theories for Uranus atmospheric structure and circulation.
Uranus Interior Traditionally, Uranus and Neptune have been lumped with Jupiter and Satur as the solar systems gas giants, because from the outside they all look like balls of hydrogen
and helium gas. But there are differences. Uranus and Neptune are smaller and much less massive than Jupiter and Satum. Given this size difference, Jupiter should be by far the densest of
the outer planets (because its great gravity squeezes its core at very high pressures into a very dense state), followed by Saturn, then Neptune, then Uranus. In fact, Neptune is the densest of
them all, followed by Uranus and Jupiter, followed by Saturn. So Uranus and Neptune must be made of denser materials to begin with than the much more massive Satum and Jupiter. The
similar outsides are hiding very different insides. There must be a much greater proportion of ice and rock in Uranus and Neptune than there is in Jupiter and Saturn. In fact, Uranus and
Neptune are mostly made of what planetary scientists refer to as icy materials -- water, methane, and ammonia -- topped by an atmosphere of gaseous hydrogen. They appear to lack the
tremendously thick envelopes of metallic hydrogen that make up the bulk of both Jupiter and Saturn. In this way, scientists say, Uranus and Neptune probably resemble the of their bigger
neighbors.cores Because they are composed of these so-called icy materials, Uranus and Neptune are now being called ice giants. However, the icy materials are likely not solid; they
probably exist in a liquid, soupy state in the interiors of the two planets. There might or might not be a solid, rocky core underneath it all. Unfortunately, there is no way to find out for sure
what the interiors of these planets are like without an orbiting spacecraft that can measure the planets gravitational fields highly accurately. Uranus Magnetic Field The magnetic field of
Uranus is strongly tilted with respect to the planet. Credit: NASAUranus' Magnetic Field An animation is available (.mov, 1 MB) Voyager Science Summary Uranus possesses one of the oddest
magnetic fields in the solar system. Like all the giant planets, it generates its own powerful magnetic field. However, the north-south axis of Uranus magnetic field is tilted 60 degrees to the
rotation axis. Even weirder, the center of the magnetic field is not at the center of the planet; it is offset from the center by about a third of the planet's radius. That may mean that it is not
generated within Uranus core, but rather at a shallower depth. Neptune's magnetic field has similar characteristics. Voyager 2 found that, because of the extreme tilt of Uranus, the planet's
magnetotail is wound into a corkscrew shape stretching 10 million kilometers behind the planet. Uranus Tilt Uranus is definitely tipped on its side, with a rotational axis that lies almost in the
plane of the ecliptic (the plane in which all the major planets travel around the Sun, or more formally, the plane of Earths orbit). The sideways tip gives Uranus the most extreme seasons in
the solar system. The southern hemisphere has baked in a decades-long summer while the northern hemisphere has been staring into black space, sunless, for an equally long winter. The
situation is changing, though. Uranus is now entering northern hemisphere spring, and on December 7, 2007, the north pole of Uranus will see the Sun for the first time in 42 years. From
2001 to 2004, Uranus's motion around the Sun has changed its orientation as seen from Earth in these images taken through Keck II's K prime filter. The four images show how the Adaptive
Optics system has improved over time. Credit: Imke de Pater, Seran Gibbard, Heidi Hammel / W. M. Keck ObservatoryKeck's Changing View of Uranus