Cliff Foster, assistant city editor Jan. 8, 2009No Comment I arrived in Colorado from Texas 19 years ago, accompanied by the love of my life. We spent many wonderful hours hiking or
lounging on the couch, watching TV. She died in 1998, having spent the last eight years of her life without suffering a single flea bite. A second English springer spaniel followed as did a job at
the Rocky after a dozen years at The Gazette in Colorado Springs. I had been at the center of a newspaper war in Dallas, one ultimately won by the rival Morning News. But even that
experience, intense as it was, did not compare to the level of competition in Denver. My first newspaper job came right after college. I drove a delivery truck for the Providence Journal Bulletin
In the moming I headed to the far reaches of Rhode Island; in the afternoon my route took me into the heart of the city. If you got tied up on the first run, you were guaranteed to be late on
the second. That meant being greeted by paperboys who demonstrated their discontent with finger gestures, four letter words and sometimes a rock delivered with precision to the side of the
truck. In 1975, I landed with the news service run by the Catholic bishopCs conference. It was a terrific first job, in large part because of an editor right out of Lou Grant . He was a large man,
always with a cigarette in his hand. John would demand grammatical precision even on the most routine story. A sharp copy editor here often points out that [Dive forgotten some of those
lessons. From there it was on to reporting jobs in Charleston, S.C., and Norfolk, Va. I was hired at the Dallas Times Herald as a reporter and later moved into various editing positions. The
newspaper war was in full swing. I was assigned to the Dallas City Hall beat and competed against a future two-time Pulitzer Prize winner. I got a few licks in on him; he got more in on me. In
1990, I joined The Gazette as city editor, hired by another large man, who also always had a cigarette in his hand. He, too, was an inspiration and a friend. Some terrific journalists practice the
trade in Colorado Springs. The Rocky came along at just the right time. I joined a city desk in 2002 that is absolutely the best IClve ever worked for or with. The Rocky is a place with minimal
office politics, great leadership and savvy professionals. The bar is set high. The work ethic is a mile-wide. And the humor is top-notch. As an assistant city editor, I work behind the scenes,
coaching stories and editing copy. Some of the smartest people IClve ever encountered work in this newsroom. And my immediate colleagues are like brothers and sisters. It would be a shame
to break up the family. Testimonials More testimonials What you can do to help listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of
theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper Preservation Act. reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the
board of E.W. Scripps , send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts a newspaper.Buy