Phone: 812-936-9300 Fa: 812-936-2100 8670 West State Road 56 French Lick, Indiana 47432 1-888-936-9360 _Please click on the logos below to read the history on our two
wonderful newly renovated historic hotels; French Lick Springs Hotel and West Baden Springs Hotel. French Lick Springs Hotel's History: Welcome to the historic French Lick Springs Hotel
Nestled in the Hoosier National Forest this valley has long been an attraction because of the many mineral water springs found here. The free-flowing mineral water left a residue of salt on the
rocks surrounding the springs that attracted the animals, such as deer and buffalo, to lick the salt off the rocks, making this one of the many "Licks" in what is now southern Indiana. Most
historians agree that there were probably French fur traders and French missionaries in this area during the time we were part of "New France". However, when the British and German settlers
started coming into this part of the country in the very early 1800's no other settlers were to be found. By 1812, there was so much tension between the settlers and the Native Americans that
the govemor of the Indiana Territory ordered blockhouses to be built in several locations as forts for the settlers to stay in when necessary, especially at night. One such fort was built here at
French Lick in 1812. When Indiana became a state, this area was thought to be a probable source of salt and was reserved for that purpose. When it became apparent that the quantity of salt
was insufficient for manufacturing, the land was put up for public auction. In 1833, Dr. William Bowles a physician from Paoli, bought 15,000 acres of land, which he began to develop and by
1845, he had built the first "French Lick Springs Hotel". This was a wood frame building of "peculiar architecture" that drew people from as far as one hundred miles away to partake in the
"miracle waters." Some even carried the mineral water home in jugs and canvas containers. The French Lick Hotel thrived under various owners, with two more buildings being added in 1888.
One building was called the Clifton and had additional rooms for guests while the other building was called the Pavilion, which was used for billiards, dancing, and had a casino on the second
floor. In 1897, the original building, now called the Windsor, bumed. The owners had very good insurance and rebuilt immediately. Tom Taggart, the mayor of Indianapolis, along with a small
group of seven investors, formed the French Lick Hotel Company and bought the property in 1901. It was under Tom Taggart's imaginative rule that the French Lick Springs Hotel rocketed to
international prominence. First, he enlarged the east wing, now known as the Spa Wing, using the famous, yellow, "French Lick Brick", scagliola (faux marble) and the Italian mosaic floors you
now see. He also had the Monon Railroad lay a special spur and run daily trains between Chicago and the front entrance of the hotel. In 1907, he hired Tom Bendelow to design the resort's first
championship golf course, formerly known as "The Valley Course" and, in 1917, had Donald Ross design and build what has been known as "The Hill Course". He modernized and expanded the
baths and built a new bottling house to bottle "Pluto Water" in HISTORY OF concentrated form for national distribution. With an expansive and luxurious spa and, after Mr. Taggart had been
named Democratic National Chairman, the elite of politics and society suddenly "discovered" French Lick Springs. It was at this hotel that, in 1917, the world famous chef, Louis Perrin, first
served tomato juice. Mr. Taggart evicted the operator of the casino that was on the property shortly after purchasing the hotel and always disclaimed any connection with the plush gambling
casinos throughout the valley. However, extensive illegal gambling existed throughout the French Lick area until the last casino was closed in 1949. Mr. Taggart, who served briefly as a U.S.
Senator by appointment, described himself as a family man first, a hotel man second and a political lobbyist third. He grew in stature until he was acknowledged as the power behind
Democratic politics in the United States. Simultaneously, French Lick Springs Hotel developed a reputation as the unofficial headquarters of the Democratic Party. It was here in this hotel that,
in 1931, Franklin D. Roosevelt rounded up support at a Democratic Governor's Conference for the party's presidential nomination. The Taggart's were parents of five daughters and one son,
Thomas D. Taggart, who carried on after his father's death in 1929. Today, French Lick Springs Hotel rests on some 2,600 acres in the breathtaking Hoosier National Forest and is part of the
$382 million restoration and expansion that has created French Lick Resort. In addition to the French Lick Springs Hotel, the resort includes the luxurious, 246 room, West Baden Springs Hotel,
opening in Summer 2007, which has been closed as a hotel since 1932 along with the new French Lick Casino. West Baden Springs Hotel's History: The intriguing history of Southern
Indiana's West Baden Springs Hotel extends to 1778 when George Rogers Clark is said to have discovered the area's mineral springs and salt licks. The supposed curative powers of such
springs combined with the idyllic landscape of Southern Indiana have been a draw throughout the years to people searching for relief from the stresses of the workaday world.Early resort
developments The region's reputation as a mineral springs resort area began with the building of the first French Lick Springs Hotel in 1832. Another hotel followed in the nearby town of Mile
Lick--later renamed West Baden--in 1855. By the late nineteenth century, seven rail lines brought guests from all over the U.S. to the Springs Valley to relax and take the cure. In 1888, Lee W.
Sindlair acquired controlling interest in the West Baden hotel and within a few years was its sole owner. He transformed it into a sophisticated resort, adding an opera house, a casino, a
two-deck pony and bicycle track and a full-size baseball field. All the guests escaped harm when a fire destroyed the entire hotel building in less than two hours in June 1901.Creation of "The
Eighth Wonder of the World" Sinclair used this tragedy as his opportunity to build the hotel of his dreams--a circular building, topped by the worlds largest dome, built as much as possible of
non-flammable materials and decorated like the grandest spas of Europe. A 35-year-old unknown architect, Harrison Albright of West Virginia, accepted Sindlair's challenge--considered
impossible by most in the architectural community--to complete the grandiose building within a year. In September 1902, the wondrous new hotel was open for business. If the advertisements
and press about the new hotel could be believed, the West Baden Springs Hotel truly deserved its reputation as the Eighth Wonder of the World, Ads claimed the resort's mineral baths and
drinking waters could cure everything from sterility to senility. The hotel offered something for everyone-including golf on two courses, horseback riding, billiards, bowling, baseball, swimming,
hiking on scenic trails, bicycling, movies and nightly theater. A stock brokerage firm joined a bank, barbershop and other personal services offered in the hotel. Birds flew from palm to palm in
the 200-foot-diameter atrium, and an enormous fireplace bumed 14-foot logs to add to the ambience on cool evenings. It was a perennial vacation spot for the great and near-great during the
first three decades of the twentieth century; guests included "Diamond Jim" Brady and Al Capone, John L. Sullivan and entire professional baseball teams who held spring training at the resort,
Mayor "Big Bill" Thompson of Chicago and New York Governor and presidential candidate Alfred E. Smith. After Sinclair died in 1916 his daughter and her husband took over the hotel's
operation and completed a massive renovation effort begun in 1913. Overextended by the renovation, Lillian Sinclair in 1923 sold the hotel to Ed Ballard for one million dollars. The ebullient
Ballard, who began his career with the hotel as a bowling alley worker, made his fortune by operating a flourishing--ifillegal--gambling business in the area. Ballard, who also owned several
nationally recognized touring circuses, was a beloved figure in the Springs Valley. When the rise of the automobile and the burgeoning resorts in Florida began drawing business away from the
West Baden Springs Hotel, he made up the loss by aggressively promoting the hotel to conventioneers and trade exhibitions. When the stock market crashed in 1929 many guests witnessed
the event in the brokerage firm's offices in the hotel. The hotel emptied of guests almost overnight. Even Ballard's most valiant efforts could not keep the hotel afloat. He closed the hotel in
June 1932 and in 1934 he sold it to the Jesuits for one dollar.Great Depression ushers in college era To transform the hotel for use as a seminary, the Jesuits removed many of its elegant
appointments and eventually dismantled the building's four Moorish towers rather than invest in their repair. Known as West Baden College, the seminary operated until June 1964 when
declining enrollment led the Jesuits to close the facility. In 1966, the Jesuits sold West Baden to a Michigan couple who donated it to Northwood Institute, a private college, which operated on
the property until 1983. While the colleges did not maintain the West Baden property in the same lavish style it exhibited during the hotel era, the landmark was relatively well cared for until
1985 when Northwood sold it to Marlin Properties, a real estate development firm based in Los Angeles, CA. Marlin declared bankruptcy before redeveloping the hotel. The property was tangled
in years of litigation before a Los Angeles federal bankruptcy court judge resolved an issue of contested ownership.Post-college years bring vacancy and deterioration Meanwhile, the elements
had taken their toll on the neglected hotel. Although the property was listed as a National Historic Landmark in 1987, it was closed to the public in 1989 for safety reasons. In January 1991, a
buildup of ice and water on the roof and in drainpipes caused the collapse of a portion of the exterior wall. The collapse affected less than 10% of the exterior masonry ring that surrounds the
dome, and the dome itself remained structurally sound. Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana led in building a coalition with two goals: stabilize the hotel to preserve its redevelopment
potential, and help attract a new owner capable of restoring the property for a new use.In 1992, Historic Landmarks Foundation spent $140,000 to stabilize the hotel, matching a $70,000
contribution from an anonymous donor. The work included patching the roof, constructing scupper openings in parapets, installing tie rods, and shoring up fourth through sixth floors on either
side of the collapse. Other work included creating marketing materials to assist the bankruptcy court in attracting a responsible buyer, and financial support to create zoning and a
redevelopment commission for the town of West Baden Springs. In May 1994, the Los Angeles bankruptcy court receiver sold the hotel to Minnesota Investment Partners [MIP] for $500,000.
Grand Casinos, Inc., an investor in the purchase, optioned the hotel from MIP. During the 1995 legislative session, Grand Casinos unsuccessfully lobbied to amend an Indiana law to allow
riverboat gambling on a body of water they proposed to build on the property. While Grand Casinos lobbying effort failed--the legislation passed in the House and was defeated in the
Senate--many legislators expressed support for the landmark and its restoration. After its legislative defeat, Grand Casinos decided not to pursue development of the West Baden Springs Hotel
MIP listed the hotel for sale for $800,000. During its period of ownership, MIP invested in the lobbying effort as well as a Phase I environmental study and architectural and site planning, but
the firm undertook no stabilization or renovation work. Partial restoration designed to attract buyer Worried that the nationally significant landmark could not withstand another winter without
investment in the building, HLFI West Baden, Inc., a subsidiary of Historic Landmarks Foundation, bought the West Baden property for $250,000 in July 1996. An anonymous donor contributed
the purchase price. A corporate benefactor, Cook Group Incorporated of Bloomington (IN), immediately began stabilization and partial restoration to make the property more attractive for
redevelopment. Initially committed to spending $12-14 million on the property, Bill and Gayle Cook and their companies eventually tallied $30 million on the Phase I restoration (1996- early
1999), and an additional $5 million in maintenance (1999-2004). The exteriors of the hotel and all outbuildings were restored, along with the garden. On the interior, the 100'x200' domed
atrium, lobby and flanking rooms, and dining room were returned to their original elegance After meeting with no success in its campaign to sell the half-restored West Baden Springs Hotel,
Historic Landmarks joined a lobbying effort to bring casino gaming to Orange County in order to save the NHL hotel and the nearby French Lick Springs Hotel, a landmark of the same era.
Historic Landmarks, Cook Group, and Boykin Lodging (owner of French Lick Springs) joined with a group of citizen lobbyists who came to be know as "The Orange Shirts" for their t-shirts
bearing the slogan "Save French Lick and West Baden Springs." The multi-year lobbying effort succeeded when the Indiana legislature approved a casino in the 2003 session and a county-wide
referendum passed with ease that fall. The legislation created a joint preservation commission of the towns of French Lick and West Baden Springs to oversee the historic hotels and casino
district. A competitive process in 2004 resulted in the selection of Trump Hotels & Casinos as the operator of the new casino. However, the Trump firm's subsequent bankruptcy reorganization
diminished its ability to meet the Indiana Gaming Commission's (IGC) requirements. In March 2005, the IGC reopened the bidding process for the French Lick-West Baden Springs casino. To
ensure preservation of the two landmark hotels, Bill, Gayle and their son Carl Cook partnered with Lauth Property Group, forming an entity called Blue Sky, LLC in a bid for the casino license. A
Cook company bought the French Lick Springs Hotel from Boykin in spring 2005. A year later, Historic Landmarks Foundation sold the West Baden Springs Hotel to a Cook company for a
nominal sum in recognition of the vast investment the Cooks had made in its restoration. The Cook-Lauth joint venture pledged to restore both hotels and build the casino and accompanying
parking garage. The Indiana Gaming Commission selected Blue Sky as the casino operator in summer 2005. The French Lick Resort will "put heads in beds" on a year-round basis, thereby
creating economic viability for the two historic hotels. The French Lick Springs Hotel closed just after Thanksgiving 2005 and was completely restored before opening with the new casino on
November 3, 2006. Restoration resumed at the West Baden Springs Hotel in the summer of 2006. Reopened as a hotel in May 2007 for the first time since 1932, the hotel offers 246
rooms/suites, reduced from the original 508 small guestrooms (created in a time before queen-sized beds and television, when visitors spent little time in their rooms). The hotel's natatorium,
long missing from the landscape is being faithfully reconstructed, based on historic photographs of the structure. To ensure long-term protection for the West Baden Springs Hotel, Historic
Landmarks Foundation of Indiana holds a perpetual preservation easement on the property. The easement requires Historic Landmarks Foundation's approval of exterior changes to the hotel
and its grounds and ensures that the site will be maintained no matter who may own it in the future