Print this page Email this page Diabetes Myths No. Although we dont know exactly why some people develop diabetes, we know diabetes is not contagious. It cant be caught like a cold or
fiu. There seems to be some genetic link in diabetes, particularly type 2 diabetes. Lifestyle factors also play a part.Myth #1 You can catch diabetes from someone else. If eaten as part of a
healthy meal plan, or combined with exercise, sweets and desserts can be eaten by people with diabetes. They are no more off limits to people with diabetes, than they are to people without
diabetes. Myth #2 People with diabetes can't eat sweets or chocolate. No. Diabetes is caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors. However, being overweight does increase
your risk for developing type 2 diabetes. If you have a history of diabetes in your family, eating a healthy meal plan and regular exercise are recommended to manage your weight.Myth #3
Eating too much sugar causes diabetes. A healthy meal plan for people with diabetes is the same as that for everyone - low in fat (especially saturated and trans fat), moderate in salt and
sugar, with meals based on whole grain foods, vegetables and fruit. Diabetic and dietetic versions of sugar-containing foods offer no special benefit. They still raise blood glucose levels, are
usually more expensive and can also have a laxative effect if they contain sugar alcohols.Myth #4 People with diabetes should eat special diabetic foods. Starchy foods are part of a healthy
meal plan. What is important is the portion size. Whole grain breads, cereals, pasta, rice and starchy vegetables like potatoes, yams, peas and com can be included in your meals and snacks
The key is portions. For most people with diabetes, having 3-4 servings of carbohydrate-containing foods is about right. Whole grain starchy foods are also a good source of fiber, which helps
keep your gut healthy.Myth #5 If you have diabetes, you should only eat small amounts of starchy foods, such as bread, potatoes and pasta. No. You are no more likely to get a cold or
another illness if you have diabetes. However, people with diabetes are advised to get flu shots. This is because any infection interferes with your blood glucose management, putting you at
risk of high blood glucose levels and, for those with type 1 diabetes, an increased risk of ketoacidosis.Myth #6 People with diabetes are more likely to get colds and other illnesses. No, insulin
does not cause atherosclerosis. In the laboratory, there is evidence that insulin can initiate some of the early processes associated with atherosclerosis. Therefore, some physicians were
fearful that insulin might aggravate the development of high blood pressure and hardening of the arteries. But it doesnt.Myth #7 Insulin causes atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) and
high blood pressure. Both the UKPDS (United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study) and the DCT (Diabetes Control & Complications Trial) have shown that the benefit of glucose management
with insulin far outweighs (no pun intended) the risk of weight gain. Fruit is a healthy food. It contains fiber and lots of vitamins and minerals. Because fruit contains carbohydrate, it needs to
be included in your meal plan. Talk to your dietitian about the amount, frequency and types of fruits you should eat. The better your glucose control, the less likely you are to develop
complications of diabetes. An A1C in the sevens (7s), however, does not represent good control. The ADA goal is less than 7 percent. The closer your A1C is to the normal range (less than 6
percent), the lower your chances of complications. However, you increase your risk of hypoglycemia, especially if you have type 1 diabetes. Talk with your health care provider about the best
goal for you. Myth #8 Insulin causes weight gain, and because obesity is bad for you, insulin should not be taken. Myth #9 Fruitis a healthy food. Therefore, it is ok to eat as much of it as
you wish. Myth #10 You dont need to change your diabetes regimen unless your A1C is greater than 8 percent.