Links Welcome! The OSU brass faculty will host a brass day for high school brass players in grades 9-12 on Saturday, January 24, 2009. Event Notice: more... Thank you for visiting the
internet home of the Oklahoma State University trombone and euphonium studio. We hope you enjoy what you find here. This site exists for several reasons: To provide a convenient way for
friends and family of OSU trombone and euphonium studio members to stay informed. To provide prospective students information about attending OSU. We are always looking to add new
students to the studio, and we hope this site provides plenty of information on what we have to offer, and how to apply for study. To keep in contact with OSU trombone and euphonium studio
alumni. We want to know what our graduates are doing, and we want them to keep informed about what is currently going on at OSU. To keep current OSU trombone and euphonium students
updated on news and upcoming events. To promote the individual members of the studio. To promote ensembles involving members of the studio. If there are any questions this site doesnt
answer, please feel free to contact Professor Paul Compton using the form at the right or by calling (405) 744-6249. Please check back regularly for updates. About Our Studio The trombone
and euphonium studio at Oklahoma State University is extremely active. Members of the studio have won competitions sponsored by the Music Teachers National Association, Down Beat
Magazine, Eastern Trombone Workshop, Intemational Trombone Association, Glenn Miller Birthplace Society, Oklahoma Music Olympics and the Crescendo Music Awards. There is tremendous
support and friendship among the studio members, and this helps everyone develop in the most positive way. The central studio themes are versatility and attention. Studio members are
encouraged to have specific professional goals, but they are also guided to be as versatile as possible. Most students are comfortable playing several styles and many double on other
instruments. Studio members also receive attention from Professor Compton beyond the average weekly lesson. OSU performance majors receive two hour long lessons each week, and all
other studio members receive at least one hour long lesson. Professor Compton also leads fundamental routine sessions every morning, which any studio member may attend. Professor
Compton coaches trombone ensembles and sectionals, and he regularly assists with accompanist rehearsals and recording sessions. The ultimate goal of the OSU trombone and euphonium
studio is to improve daily, and the extra attention helps ensure this. Please enjoy our website! Thank you for stopping by and check back often. Interested in joining the OSU studio? Fill out
the form below, and we will contact you with information about our growing program. * required field