X. Other Resource Services Lunch and Snack Areas The Eagle Cafe in Howard Hall is the home of Taco Bell Express and Subway as well as the C3 Convenience Store. So you do not have to
spend your lunch hour in line, you can fax a Subway order in the morning for noon pickup. The Perch, located in the Student Union, offers an all you care to eat concept with quick and
friendly service. Einstein Bros Bagels located in the Student Union has a wide variety of menu items induding bagels, coffee, salads, soup, and more. Starbucks is located in the Library
serving your favorite lattes, cappuccinos and more. Fresh Food Company at the South Village begins service in Fall 2008 with unlimited servings of all your favorites, cooked in front of you, and
using only the freshest of ingredients. You may also arrange to have lunch in the office with the Aramark catering service by calling 590-1160 or go to . eaglecatering. catertrax.com Vending
machine service is provided in the Student Union, Howard Hall, Griffin Hall, the Library, Reed Hall, Academic 5, and other locations around campus. Suncoast Schools Federal Credit Union The
Credit Union, with locations in Fort Myers, Naples, San Carlos Park and Lehigh Acres, is a cooperative saving and lending organization providing low interest rates on loans and competitive
dividends on savings. It offers a variety of consumer services. Payroll deductions may be authorized from your paycheck for loan payments and savings to the Credit Union. You may receive
information on the Credit Union in Human Resources or at . http://www.suncoastfcu.org/ ATM There are two ATMs on campus. Suncoast Schools Federal Credit Union provides ATM access
which is located in the vending machine area of Howard Hall. Bank of America provides ATM service on the first floor of the Student Union Building. University Bookstore The University
Bookstore, located on the first floor of the Student Union Building, carries a variety of items for your business or personal use. Services provided indude UPS shipping, laminating and special
ordering of office supplies, nametags, custom embroidery, etc. Present your Eagle ID for discounted prices. Campus Recreation The Department of Campus Recreation provides services to
promote a healthy lifestyle and improve the quality of life for all campus members including students, faculty, staff and their families. Diversified programs and facilities are available to enhance
participant's cooperative teamwork, spiritual awareness, intellectual stimulation, personal development and just plain fun. Campus Recreation is the home of the Aquatics Center, Fitness
Center, Intramurals, Sport Clubs, and Waterfront and Outdoor Pursuits.Whether interested in swimming, group fitness classes, flag football, wakeboarding, or trips to the Florida Keys; Campus
Recreation has an activity that is right for you.For more information on REC Club memberships, contact the Department of Campus Recreation at 590-7935 or Campusrec@fgcu.edu