Healthy Happy Lives Keeping Your Body in Good Physical Condition You can eat all the healthy foods in the garden and get lots and lots of exercise, but sometimes it is just not enough.
Sometimes you need a little help from someone whol passion is your good health. When you find yourself in need, give a call to one of the following specialists. And keep eating those fruits
and veggies and riding your bike. Active Mind and Body Viality Center, LLc Laser Center and Medical Spa 16060 Monterey St., Ste. 130, Morgan Hill " 408 778-5090" ambvc@verizon.net
www.activemby.com Active Mind & Body Vitality Center is a local medical company created by . & that successfully treats people from the inside out. Our center in Morgan Hill takes a
unique and different approach to bringing out both the inner and outer beauty of each of our dients. Our total package of wellness and beauty needs will take you into the next year and far
beyond with a look and a positive balanced attitude that will change your life.kenneth Rebong, M.DMatie Anson-Rebong, M.D. Our range of services are individually applied to your needs.
By providing hormone balancing, weight loss, nutritional counseling Cosmolift, Botox, Juvederm, and a host of other non-surgical procedures and products, we address the specific needs of
each client to bring about desired results. There is no Band-Aid therapy at the Active Mind & Body Vitality Center. Here you will find lasting solutions to wrinkle lines, hair loss, sagging skin and
the overall effects of aging. Our philosophy is to take the time to understand each clients unique needs and lifestyle to create a custom treatment plan for them. In order to
appreciate the full range of services we can offer, please visit our website at , drop by our clinic at 16060 Monterey Road, Suite #130 in Morgan Hill or call us at 408-778-5090 or
1-877-992-2848. We would love to set up an individual consultation for you, and are confident you will look and feel better as a result. www.activembv.com  www.drajmatthews.com.

is board certified in both plastic and reconstructive surgery as well as general surgery. He is licensed by the California Medical Board and New York State Medical Board. Dr. Matthews finished
his 11 years of post-medical school training by completing the prestigious aesthetic surgery fellowship at Manhattan Eye, Ear, and Throat Hospital under the tutelage of some of the best and
most well-known plastic surgeons in the world. Andrew J. Matthews, M.D. During his general surgery residency, Dr. Matthews studied the relationship between antioxidant vitamins and
atherosclerosis as a PhD student in the Department of Food Science and Nutrition. Wishing you good health today and in the future...Andrew J. Matthews, M.D. Allergicare 7461 Eigleberry
St., Gilroy " 408 847-6005 Imagine being able to live life allergy free without the use of prick tests, medications, shots or side affects that sometimes accompany these types of
treatments. and . offer a non-invasive, advanced alternative proven laser technology that relieves most forms of allergies and sensitivities. Dr. Davis says, Since symptoms associated
with ADHD and other disorders can many times be attributed to food allergies, the treatment we offer has great potential for helping children with ADHD. Our procedure has linked us to the
latest revelation in the hidden connection between food, allergies and autism.Dr. Martin Davis, D.C.Dr. Sam Nijmeh, D.C www.BodyWorksMH. com. BodyWorks of Morgan Hill offers
custom exercise programs for singles, couples and small groups of up to six people. We train men, women and children. Our programs are designed to improve cardiovascular fitness, strength,
endurance, flexibility and balance. We also design programs for those who have finished with physical therapy and are ready for the next step: a structured program that picks up where
physical therapy left off. BodyWorks offers instructed circuit training classes for 3 to 6 clients. Your trainer keeps time and coaches you. People of different strength and conditioning can
work in the same class because the trainer gears the intensity to the individual BodyWorks of Morgan Hill is unique in offering programs that integrate Pilates instruction with traditional
weight training. Our programs offer you the best of both worlds or allow you to focus on either traditional or Pilates exercise. , who has 26 years of conditioning and weight lifting
experience, established BodyWorks in 1998. Afer retiring early from the IBM Corporation, she attended San Jose State University to obtain a Masters degree in kinesiology. She has also
attended classes in the use of Pilates for rehabilitation of injuries and has designed many programs for those recovering from injuries. Visit for a complete description of our trainers, programs
and prices.Phyllis Kaiser www.BodyWorks MH.com  Bodz by Camacho 110 Old Gilroy St., Gilroy " 408 847-BODY (2639) The New Year is already here; this is when people think about
starting a fitness program. Before starting one, one must know the answers to the 5 WOIs. Ask yourself all the reasons why you even want to do this. Why: Exactly what are my goals? Weight
loss? Weight gain?What: In the area is most knowledgeable that can help me attain my goals?Who: Can I go to accomplish my goalsWhere: Strike when the iron is hot! So when is

 

 

   

now!When: The answers to numbers four and five are simple. and of Bodz by Camacho Personal Training Service have been in the area for over 20 years with over 1000 satisfied clients
to date. P.J. and David are without question the most experienced, knowledgeable and affordable trainers in the area.P.J. PreeshIDavid Camacho The is the home of Bodz by Camacho
Personal Training Service. It is well equipped, friendly and local. Making it convenient enough to be consistent.Musclehouse Gym City of Morgan Hill Centennial Recreation Center 171 W.
Edmundson Ave., Morgan Hill" 408 782-2128 www.mherc.com When you walk into the Morgan Hill Centennial Recreation Center (CRC) you immediately realize that it is more than just

a fitness center. The CRC experience begins with a welcoming lobby that invites you to meet and visit with friends and family before or after a workout. The CRC is a place to have positive
experiences with your whole family and offers many family friendly features: a Kids Zone, family changing rooms, the opportunity to work out with your children age 9 and above, a teen center,
a senior center with senior nutrition program, indoor pool with water slide, and party packages for the perfect birthday celebration The CRC also offers strength and cardio equipment,
FitLinxx (providing you instant feedback while you workout), a group exercise studio, a full compliment of classes from yoga to group cycling, personal training, and many other fabulous
programs and classes for both members and non-members. Complete Wifi access rounds out your experience by making the CRC a productive place to sit and work. No matter why you visit the
CRC, our welcoming staff is always available to assist you! _r. Calvin Clark D.D.S. 890 Sunset Dr,, Ste A-1B, Hollister " 831 637-5585 At my office in Hollister patients can look for
gentle, state of the art care for every type of dental need. With free consultations, flexible payment plans and acceptance of insurance plans, we can make sure you can get the care you need.
 However, there is another reason to come into our practice. I have been practicing in Hollister for 42 years, since Hollister was a town of 7,000 people. I really appreciate this place and
the people in the community. For more than four decades I have been part of this San Benito County, and I invite you to come and experience the gentle dental care I have been providing for
that lengthy and enjoyable time. Voted Best Dentist in San Benito County, Dr. Clarke still sees some of his original patients along with their children and grandchildren! Crossfit
Hollister 1803 Shelton Dr, #104, Hollister " 831 637-3032 Health is your first Wealth is not just a catchy phrase, it can determine the quality of your life. Crossfit Hollister, a brand new
gym located at 1803 Shelton Drive #4 in Hollister offers a combination of weight training, gymnastics, running and rowing. Personal Trainers guide every aspect of your development. All
workouts are modified to your own abilities, regardless of your current physical condition, permanent injuries or age. San Benito County has the highest obesity rate for children in the
entire state of California. Crossfit offers classes for kids 5 years old and up. Begin your New Year with a family focus on health. The entire family can come workout and get in the "Best Shape
of Your Life". Jumping stimulates your immune system and lifting weights stimulate bone density. Crossfit is designed to improve cardio, strength and confidence. Nutrition classes instruct
how to "fuel" our bodies and the owners offer special rates to Police, Fire and Military personnel. On Saturday, January 10th Crossfit Hollister will open its doors for a personal experience.
Come on down, meet the owners and trainers, . Tour the facility and actually go thru a workout. They are Empowering People to take Control of their Lives!Beth and Ely Albalos
www.morganhillsmiles.com Proper oral hygiene does not just save your teeth and gums, it could save your life. The bacteria from gum disease enters the blood stream and contributes to
the clogging of arteries in the heart. Researchers have found people with periodontal disease are almost twice as likely to suffer from coronary artery disease as those without periodontal
disease. Studies have also shown periodontal diseases are linked to strokes and those who suffered from a stroke were more likely to have an oral infection. Taking the time to properly brush
and floss has a direct effect on the rest of your health Often people with missing or problem teeth automatically opt for a bridge or similar solution. The problem is in order to do this the
surrounding teeth are compromised and at greater risk for their own problems. Choosing an implant fixes the affected tooth without a negative impact on the surrounding teeth. When
considering the affects it will have on surrounding teeth, the long term costs associated with fixing those problems, and the more natural look and feel of an implant can prove to be a wise
choice. For those who need a crown, new technology in our office means a crown replacement can be done in one visit and often in less than 45 minutes. So if youTlve been putting it off
your excuses are gone!Please give us a call to see how you can improve your oral hygiene, review available treatment options, or get that crown done quickly! Or visit us at:
www.morganhillsmiles.com Dr. Tommy Tong 7880 Wren Ave., #C132 Gilroy" 408 842-0314 370 W. Dunne Ave., #6 Morgan Hill " 408 779-4169 We have been providing high quality
braces in Morgan Hill for nine years at the same convenient location. Stop by our bright and friendly office where we treat children and adults and offer flexible payment plans to meet you
specific budgetary needs. We are proud to be the largest provider of Invisalign braces in South Santa Clara County, and we encourage anyone who would like to easily and invisibly improve the
overall appearance of their teeth to call for a convenient appointment. Your Invisalign treatment will consist of a series of aligners that you switch out about every two weeks. Each aligner
is individually manufactured with exact calculations to gradually shift your teeth into place. And since your Invisalign system is custom-made for your teeth and your teeth only, with a plan
devised by you and Dr. Tong, you know you'll end up with a smile that truly fits.  www.fitmommiesonline.com At Fit Mommies we offer for you to socialize, get healthy and trim, and
have fun all without having to leave your child behind. We want you, and your child, to join us in the number one exercise recommended for new moms&walking. We start with a warm up, and
then use the environment around us for a workout. Next comes a 20 minute walk, followed by full workout with weights when we return. A playgroup follows, so everyone can relax and allow
their children to interact. In Hollister the first class is free and no membership is required. Simply pay $8 as you go. The classes meet at Frank Klauer Memorial Park and the VeteranOs
Building, In Gilroy, sign up through the Recreation Department at (408) 846-0460 for $25 which includes a month of classes at Sunrise Park. _ www.fitnessformulamh.com

Whats most important for a person looking to start and stay on a healthy workout program? , owner and lead trainer at Fitness Formula training studio in Morgan Hill says it best; A positive
can-do attitude, the right guidance and a safe comfortable workout space. At Fitness Formula prides itself on individual attention and affordable training for all its personal & group training as
well as its circuit training classes.Jane Broome _Dr. Grifall Dr is Morgan Hills Hometown Chiropractor! He grew up here and enjoys raising his family here. His interest in Chiropractic
began in college after suffering a back injury and his positive experience made a lasting impression... Mike Grifall found her love for chiropractic early on, and has been a patient since her
early teenage years. Diana is especially interested in improving and addressing women's health issues and nutrition. She also lives in Morgan Hill with her husband. Dr. Diana Tole Grifall
Family Chiropractic celebrates its 8th year in business offering gentle chiropractic care for the entire family. Both Palmer West graduates, Dr. Grifall and Dr. Tole offer a variety of chiropractic
techniques, on-site services and therapies to assist patients in achieving optimum health and function. Dr. Moulthrop Dr. MoulthropOs practice is a perfect combination of cutting edge
technology and personalized care. His energy, skill and philosophy of exceeding expectations have eamed him a stellar reputation, making him one of the most sought after and respected
dentists in Santa Clara County. My patients deserve the best and I am pleased that I can provide a unique setting, the most current equipment available and a superior staff who share
my same high standard of care. The patients will begin in a relaxing waiting area with a fireplace, water feature and stained glass and will continue into the treatment room where all
operatories have a massage feature in each chair. Anative of Morgan Hill, he graduated from Live Oak High School in 1976, received his DDS from the University of Southern California,
one of the top rated dental schools in the country, and continued his education with a hospital residency at Sepulveda VA Medical Center. He has also completed advanced training in Cosmetic
Dentistry, Implantology, Prosthodontics, Endodontics and the treatement of Periodontal disease. He is a true General Dentist covering all aspects of dental care. Dr. Moulthrop has been
voted Best Dentist in Morgan Hill for several years in a row. Dr. Vito With our move to Morgan Hill in April from our previous office in Gilroy, we now have over twice the space and are
now providing state of the art neurological care for adults and children, not only from a basic clinical standpoint but also now with the addition of advanced neurodiagnostic equipment and
testing. We are one of the few neurology offices in the Bay Area that provide digital EEG studies (seizure detection). Additionally, we can examine such common neurological problems as carpel
tunnel syndrome, peripheral neuropathies, muscle disorders, and pinched nerves in the spine. We are one of the few offices in the Bay Area with tests to assess the neurological integrity of
hearing, vision, and sensation. By using a transcranial doppler we can examine blood flow in brain arteries and are useful in detecting strokes emanating from the heart or other arteries,
usually only performed at select academic stroke centers. Alll of this advanced technology is provided in a comfortable, warm, and nurturing environment in the new Butterfield Professional
Center. Feel free to drop by for a visit anytime! Individualized Physical Therapy is pleased to announce that Pilates Mat and Reformer Classes are now being offered. Our mat classes
focus on building core strength in a small group atmosphere on Tuesday and Thursday evenings at 7:30PM and Saturday mornings at 9:00AM. Class size is limited to six students and
provides a gentle, safe, and effective workout for the beginning Pilates student. This small group setting ensures that back, neck or other orthopedic concerns can be addressed as exercises
are modified to suit individual needs. These classes are instructed by , a Certified Pilates Instructor with seven years experience and is also a Certified Personal Trainer. Individualized Physical
TherapyJulie Jensen We also offer private Pilates Reformer and Apparatus Training. Sessions are personalized for either one or two clients. These one-hour sessions are available to both
the beginning or more advanced Pilates student, day or evening by appointment only. Gift certificates are available. 700 W. Sixth Street, Gilroy " 408 842-3196 Medical Pavilion Pharmacy
9460 No Name Uno, #100, Gilroy "408 842-2001 Over 200,000 people each year are hospitalized for the flu, millions suffer the agonizing effects and possibly miss time from work. But
there are ways to prevent spreading and catching the flu. Everyone should get the flu shot, especially young children and older adults as they are at the greatest risk. It is best to get
vaccinated by November, but the shot can be effective taken as late and February. If you do get the flu, cover your nose and mouth when you sneeze and avoid going to work, school or other
places you can spread it. Healthy eating and exercise habits will help fight off the flu naturally, but the best prevention is washing your hands with soap or using an anti-bacterial gel when
washing is not possible. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with hands that have not been washed. For more information on the flu vaccination, general health tips, or information on

 

medications please call or drop by! Hazel Hawkins Clinic / Mabie Health Center 991 San Juan Rd., Hollister 321 First St., HollisterSpring 2009: Summer 2009: 2009 is going to bring
better health care to Hollister. Two new clinics are opening soon and providing a wide variety of services. Both locations will focus on Primary Care including Pediatrics, OB/GYN, Pre-natal and
Cardiology. The first to open its doors is the Mabie Health Center located at 991 San Juan Road and this dlinic will also have ultra-sound services. While the Mabie Health Center will open

in the Spring, the second dlinic located at 321 First Street is scheduled to open by Summer. The First Street clinic will house an entire Imaging Center. Both locations will provide CHDP and
CPSP Programs and a series of educational seminars, including Nutritional Counseling. The expanded services and additional locations can now provide more technology and staff to the
residents and their medical needs. We look forward to the Grand Openings! Hazel Hawkins Satellite 920 Sunnyslope Rd., 2nd Floor, Hollister " 831 630-9068 591 McCray St., Suite 111,
Hollister" 831 636-1436 Hazel Hawkins Hospital is pleased to announce two new satellite laboratory locations. These convenient centers will allow Hollister residents to have laboratory
procedures performed close to home rather than driving to the actual hospital. Blood testing can be performed by our phlebotomists at these sites, as well as specimen collection and specimen
drop offs. Hazel Hawkins has always prided itself on providing friendly, state of the art healthcare to residents of San Benito County, and with the addition of these new centers on Sunnyslope
Road and McCray Street we believe that service will be enhanced and accessible to those that need it most. We are open Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. at both locations, and 8
a.m, to 2 p.m, on Saturday at the McCray Street location so everyone should be able to fit their lab work into our new satelliteCIs schedule. We dont even close for lunch, because at Hazel
Hawkins we understand that lunch break might be the only time slot in your busy day for you to stop by. We look forward to serving your needs.