The American International University, Leakproof Seamless Gutters Commitment to Sustainability Installation by FSG Technologies Ltd is currently underway with various national builders in
Milton Keynes, guided by government agencies specifying sustainable products and whole life cycle costings. The project involves 2000 units of which 340 have been completed with the
Mustangcontinuous aluminium guttering and canalis downpipe supplied by ARP Ltd. Mustangcontinuous aluminium guttering was chosen due to its guaranteed longevity, with a BBA accredited
30 year life expectancy. It is manufactured and cut to the length required so there is minimal waste. With sustainability at the top of the agenda for the public sector, ARP Ltd provides an
economical and ecofriendly guttering solution. Back to top Environmentally Friendly Refurbishment On the Isle of Man, principal contractors, NK Joinery Ltd are currently involved in a project
run by the Department of Local Government and Environment. The project involves the refurbishment of 64 properties in Jurby, North West of the Island. Jurby is a wide open and exposed
coastal area with severe weather conditions, which meant choosing a material that would withstand the harsh environment. The properties at Jurby previously had seamless aluminium
guttering lasting in excess of 20 years but due to the timber substrate refurbishment was required. Mustangcontinuous aluminium guttering was specified by government architects due to its
durability and ease of installation. As Les Nicol of NK Joinery Ltd comments, "As well as durability, choosing a product that is environmentally friendly and sustainable is also important.
Aluminium is the greenest option by far. The aluminium that was previously installed at the Jurby site was taken down and recycled by a local merchant, showing how it can be recycled and
reused, Aside from it being good for the environment, it is also aesthetically pleasing." Back to top Economical and Eco-Friendly Aluminium Guttering Lewes District Council specified ARP's
Mustangaluminium guttering system on a refurbishment project at Hillcrest Court, Newhaven. ARP's Mustang125mm O.G gutter system was specified on the 6 blocks of 3 storey flats as well as
our anti vandal pipe guard and canalis downpipe. Choosing a guttering material with a long life expectancy was important as the flats are located on the East Sussex coast line. The aluminium
was recommended as suitable for the harsh coastal environment. Richard Hallett, Senior Maintenance Surveyor says the Mustangaluminium guttering system was specified due to a number of
reasons. "ARP's Mustangwas chosen due to the fact it is maintenance-free. It's one continuous piece of aluminium, extruded on site, which reduces the number of joints and therefore the
potential for leaks. ARP provided excellent pre-contract assistance with the specification and recommending approved contractors to carry out the installation." Back to top A Funeral for PVC
Guttering? When Bolton based Butler Roofing installed Mustang continuous aluminium guttering, from Aluminium Roofline Products, on St Pauls church in Bolton, they had to fit round
weddings, christenings and funerals. Doug Greenhalgh, Sales Manager for Butler Roofing explains: "We replaced the old cast iron with continuous aluminium after submitting a sample to the
diocese. During the installation we had to down tools during services as a mark of respect but still managed to complete the whole project in three days - installing ARP Ltd products is three
times as quick compared with PVC. We use Mustangguttering for 90% of installations because of the benefits - a longer lifespan, BBA approval for a life expectancy of 20 years and no
maintenance make it a clear winner for our customers - even those in the clergy." Back to top The American International University The American International University have recently
specified ARP's products to transform the historical premises from it's derelict condition. Their remit was to replicate the exisiting guttering as closely as possible. ARP went straight to work and
came up with the 3mm ogee guttering in replicated railway pattern and 76mm cast collared aluminium pipe. The replica hoppers are fabricated from 3mm aluminium sheet. The first part of the
project is in the process of being completed, with the site being finished in the next 18 months. However, it doesn't stop there. Plans are under way for 10 new appartment blocks to be built
over the next 4 -5 years within the university grounds. An opportunity to introduce some of our more modern product range.