take a look at_RV lemon law We are all "consumers" in need of protection, and consumer "justice" statutes have been enacted by the Legislature
and U.S. Congress to level the marketplace's playing field. Enforcing consumer rights sometimes requires a do-it-yourself" approach - neither the Attorney General, the Governor nor the
President will protect us from unlawful, and even willful, wrongdoing. In America, occasionally the civil jury must serve as the ultimate enforcer of the law. A warranty is simply a promise
by the manufacturer (and sometimes by a seller) to do something. Most warranties are termed "limited," and only provide the manufacturer's promise to repair, replace or adjust a defective
product. There is generally no right a a refund of the purchase price, except for new motor vehicle lemons. "Lemons" (so called for the sour taste left in the buyer's mouth) come in all sizes
and shapes. Most lemons have wheels, and technically, Virginia's "lemon" law -- the Motor Vehicle Warranty Enforcement Act -- is limited to automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, and the chassis
of motorhomes. However, some lemons float (boats), others fly (aircraft), and even a third class includes defective houses and mobile homes. For the most part, the days of (loosely
translated, "tough luck") are over! In Virginia, for a motor vehicle to qualify for a buy-back under the Warranty Enforcement Act, it must generally be no older than four model years, and have
documented problems during its first eighteen months following delivery to the first owner or lessee. There must also be evidence that the manufacturer was notified within eighteen months
from delivery. For owners or lessees of vehicles that do not qualify under this "lemon" law, there may still be warranty law rights under other statutes.caveat emptor _Virginia's Warranty
Enforcement Act does not include boats and watercraft (such as jet skiis, etc.). Neither does it include the "coach" or living section of a motorhome. However the consumer with a boat or
motorhome defect or malfunction is still protected under the Commonwealth's Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) and the Federal Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. We hear in my office almost
daily of auto manufacturers which are unwilling to repurchase their unrepairable "lemons;" of car dealers selling as "new" vehicles with hidden damage and shoddy repairs; and of unfair sales
practices evidenced by forged signatures, broken promises, and outrageous price gouging. _ Virginia's General Assembly, even in the face of overwhelming lobbying efforts by forces from the
Dark Side, has demonstrated both its collective courage and its concern for consumer protection and justice: -- For violations of the proven by clear and convincing evidence, minimum
damages ($500) and reasonable attorney fees and costs are available. On proof of willfulness, damages may be multiplied threefold. -- For "used" car buyers purchasing vehicles sold "as
is" but without the mandatory Buyers Guide window sticker, there is the right to cancel the deal during the first thirty days. _-- Dealers unable to complete vehicle title registration with DMV
during the first thirty days must accept retum of the vehicle once the temporary certificate of ownership (30 day tags) has lapsed without renewal. Consumer Protection Act Our Warranty
Enforcement Act, or , is one of the best in the Nation. Juries clearly recognize the pain and aggravation associated with the purchase of a defective and "significantly impaired" motor vehicle
which can not be properly repaired during the first eighteen months. In July, 1997, a Fairfax County judge and jury in awarded money damages totaling almost $84,000 for an unrepairable,
$43,000 Lexus 300SC "lemon" law Debrew v. Lexus NOTE: effective July 1, 1999, the Virginia lemon law will require either: When dealer-arranged financing fails to materialize, in Virginia, the
buyer can retum the vehicle within twenty-four hours for a refund of money paid. _in Virginia is found in the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), Article Two. This act explains rights of
cancellation or rescission ("revocation of acceptance" and "rejection of nonconforming goods"), as well as express and implied warranties. Contract law for "goods" The law for the of "goods"
such as motor vehicles is governed in Virginia by the UCC, Artie 2A. lease Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act et seq These are a few examples where the "playing field is almost "level!" The
announced on June 5, 1998, its FIRST LEMON LAW OPINION. This decision -- Subaru v. Peters -- reflected the Commonwealth's first significant consumer protection case from Virginia's
highest Court. Virginia Supreme Court In Subaru v. Peters, the trial judge had ruled, on Subaru's summary judgment motion, that Ms. Peters automobile, which had been purchased "used"
and previously operated by Hertz, still qualified for Warranty Enforcement Act protection. After winning a jury verdict ordering Subaru to repurchase her "significantly impaired" motor vehicle,
Ms. Peters was forced to defend in Subaru's appeal to the Virginia Supreme Court. _Key issues resolved by the Supreme Court include: - certain used automobiles can qualify for
"lemon" law repurchase and other money damages - expert witness testimony is not always required... the "victim's" testimony may be sufficient - there is no requirement for three
or more repairs for a nonsafety defect, or one or more repair visits for a safety problem, or a minimum of thirty days in the shop (first 18 months) - _ personal use representing
66% of the total mileage is "substantial" family, non-business use