State Boundaries of the United States The boundaries of the United States of America. What this map layer shows: Background Information A State is the primary legal subdivision of the
United States, and State boundaries translate this concept into a geographic framework for our Nation. A State can be discussed in terms of the many roles it plays in national, regional, and
local government and in terms of its history, geography, and demographics. Each State has a unique identity evidenced by those of us who carry a lifelong allegiance to the place where we
grew up, our home State. The Government of the United States is based on the concept of federalism, where power is shared between the National Government and the State Governments
This relationship is defined by the . Under this system, State Governments have exclusive powers to issue licenses, regulate intrastate businesses, conduct elections, establish local
governments, ratify amendments to the Constitution, and take measures for public health and safety. States may exert powers that are not delegated to the National Government. States may
exert powers not explicitly prohibited by the Constitution. Sharing power between National and State governments allows us to enjoy the benefits of a unified government, while retaining many
rights at the State and local levels. States are often grouped or described by their geography. Forty-eight of the fifty States form the conterminous United States (States within a common
boundary). The remaining two States are Alaska and Hawaii. Canada separates Alaska from the conterminous United States, and Hawaii is located in the Pacific Ocean. The State Boundaries of
the United States map layer includes boundaries for the fifty States and for three State equivalents: the , the , and the . These State equivalents are not States but are governmental units
treated as if they were States for purposes of data presentation. State names, two-letter State abbreviations, the (FIPS) codes for each State, and the date and order of State admission for
each State are included. FIPS codes are standardized numeric codes used to ensure the uniform identification of geographic entities through all Federal Government agencies. This map layer

was compiled by the National Atlas of the United States. Sample Map