round like a ball; globe-shaped of, relating to, or including the whole earth; worldwide complete or comprehensive being or having to do with a business, operation, system, etc. carried on or
extending throughout all or much of the worlda company, communicationsglobalglobal pertaining to or including an entire file, database, etc.Comput. Related Forms: Usage Examplesglobal
Modifying Another Word : Today, here in Edinburgh, we are part of a powerful movement - , truthfully about our shared humanity. truly truly global : We have developed a new strategic vision
to reflect the nature of emergency rescue crises. increasingly increasingly global : The bi-directional data transfer between local transponders and regional or database systems is made
possible online. even even global : He learned a companies automotive aftermarket association-southeast least complicated and. about about global : The company serves 100 countries and
is the IT distributor with operations in Asia. only only global : They are brands with the financial and social impact that goes with that. now now global Modifies a noun warming: Do think you
there's anything we can do fix some of the problems already caused by ?global warming : The Dangers Ahead Our is becoming more dependent on the Internet. economy global economy :
Great shares at bargain prices now litter the . market global markets : But why monitor the environment at the ? scale global scale : United Airlines is a founding member of the Star Alliance,
the first comprehensive . network global airline network : Rewards are as you would expect from a ! leader global market leader Used with adjective complement : As businesses , we can feel
even further removed from the people who make things for us. go go global : American poets form the starting point, although the mix is promised to later. become become global : In
different countries people use different terminology for same product or service. think Think global Preposition: in : , the University of World Peace will create campuses in key population
centers around the world. scope Global in scope : The notion of coercion seems to require distinguishing between the local and the . way global in a slightly more thoroughgoing way
Quotesglobal