Introduction: What are phthalates? are that are added to other materials to make them softer and more flexible. Phthalates plasticisers They are widely used in a range of such as that are
found in a wide variety of consumer products including floor- and wall covering, furnishing, toys, car interior, clothing, hoses etc. are also added to paints and lacquers, adhesives and , printing
inks etc. polymers PVC Phthalates sealants Because are not chemically bound to the material they are added to, they can be released from the products that contain them, for instance into
water and air. The emission of phthalates occurs during all the stages of the life cycle of a product from , through use, to disposal. There is public concern about phthalates because of their
widespread use and occurrence in the environment as well as their potential effects on human health. phthalates production A range of different exist, which each have specific properties,
applications, and potential health effects. phthalates Table: Some examples of phthalates and their applications Five of the most widely used are di-(2-ethylhexy!) phthalate (), dibutyl
phthalate (), di-isononyl phthalate (), di-isodecy! phthalate () and benzyl butyl phthalate (). These phthalates have been assessed within an EU program on Assessment for new and existing
chemical substances. phthalates DEHP DBP DINP DIDP BBP Risk By 2004, the final reports on , and had been published. The content of these reports was summarised by GreenFacts. DBP
DIDP DINP In Europe, between 1990 and 1995, the average annual consumption of was 970 000 , of which 894 000 tonnes were . For comparison, the worldwide consumption is estimated at
3.5 million tonnes. plasticisers tonnes phthalates plasticiser Approximation of the relative importance of the consumption of four of the main phthalates in the European Union in the 1990s
Because of the strong similarities between and , they will be described together for the rest of the present study. The three described in this study are used mainly as in products. The total
amount of these phthalates produced for use in PVC in Western Europe was 877 000 in 1994, of which 191 000 tonnes was DIDP, 101 500 tonnes was DINP, and around 18 000 tonnes was
DIDP DINP phthalates plasticisers PVC tonnes DBP GreenFacts comment: It should be noted that in 2008 the EU Assessments on the most commonly used phthalate, (51% in the 1990s), and
on have been released