Advertisement Advertisement After 9 long years, it's time to move on. One final thought: don't ever stop ruthlessly criticizing everything that exists. The Internet will not magically bring the
world together; nor is it likely to destroy us. Science fiction isn't escapist; it can help us envision how to make the world a better place. We need to organize and actively make things
uncomfortable for the companies trying to regulate our use of online technologies. The era of free, open online innovation may be coming to an end. If the controversial video game were a
movie, we'd all be mightily impressed by its dark, ironic vision of a world at war with itself, The Web makes it easy for crowds to collaborate. But it also makes it simple for mobs to crush free
expression. The advantage of publishing online rather than in books? Nobody can bum the Internet. A look at the facts on Microhoo! Thomas Beatie is not the first transgendered man to get
Pregnant. So why is he getting so much attention, and why now? Proper English is being supplanted by a language that reflects the lives of all the people who speak it. The human proclivity for
pointless, conflict-driven tribalism manifests itself on the web. Eliot Spitzer's decision to pay money for sex was personal. It's not like he issued a policy of mandatory hookers for everybody.
Protesting online can be just as revolutionary as carrying signs, yelling, and storming the gates of power in the real world. Our government is waging a war against science, endangering
millions of lives in the U.S. and beyond. Even if we spent as much money on space exploration as we do on war, funding a mission to Mars would not solve any of our problems. I hate Facebook
and I'm not afraid to say why. Our brave new infrastructure is failing around us even as we claim that it offers a shining path to the future. If only the government would warn you when it was
recording your conversations, like Google. People are freaked out by the FDA's ruling that cloned meat is safe to eat, but we eat cloned plants all the time. Will blogs take on all the bad habits
of the mainstream media or will it help the media progress just a bit further toward independence of thought? The amount of information in the world is always expanding faster than the data
storage systems available to capture it. Gizmos that a decade ago would have been viewed entirely as communications tools and toys are now potential surveillance and killing machines. How
easily important information can fall into the wrong hands. Recent studies of animal cognitive ability prove that humans aren't much more intelligent than dogs or monkeys. Wil isn't just a
consumer electronics death monster, it represents the future of technology. Since there are no laws guaranteeing net neutrality, media conglomerates like Comcast are free to engage in net
prejudice. New companies claim to reveal the secrets of your DNA, but will the information cause more harm than good? A new internet tool lets you see countries cracking down on
user-generated content like YouTube and MySpace. But it could also be a tool to help us see our country's own suppression. Sometimes when there are no good candidates at the moment, you
have to vote for the one who'll be best in the future. Carbon offset fees may be new, but the underlying notion goes back to the Middle Ages, when the Catholic Church sold wealthy people
indulgences to offset the spiritual cost of their sins. Consumer biotech can measure and alter biological states for the mass market -- which goes much further than the consumer electronics
craze over iPhones and Wiis. Two scandals in the sci-tech world serve as reminders that science can be done in bad faith. Moaning Lisa demonstrates the videogame-like properties of the
female body -- to give it an orgasm you have to follow different patterns every time. Instant Messenger is a medium of communication somewhere between e-mail, which can be too slow, and
the phone, which can be too fast. Jaime Sommers, heroine of the 1970s show is back, but in a gender role that seems older than the original. Preserving a record of history, especially during
times of conflict, also means keeping the scenes of violence that the mainstream media whitewashes over. The government is cutting funds to the tools that climate researchers need most --
the satellite and sensor networks that study the way humans are impacting climate change. When NASA sent the Voyager into space 30 years ago, it contained record albums intended for alien
consumption. When NASA sent the Voyager into space 30 years ago, it contained record albums intended for alien consumption. Stories by Annalee Newitz