My Sewing World Welcome to our creative world of sewing. If you love to sew, choose fabrics and patterns, and finally produce and wear a finished garment, read on for great project,
dressmaking tips, reviews of machines and creative embroidery ideas. Sewing Machines Reviewed If you're just about to buy a new machine, you're about to make a big investment, so you'll
want to buy the best. From Bemina to Janome, from Kenmore to Husqvarna, from Elna to Toyota, from New Home to Riccor, from Brother to Singer, from Viking to Serger - discover which is
best for you. Check out our reviews of the most popular sewing machine makes and models, as well as find models which feature embroidery. Sewing Projects Whether you're looking to sew
Christmas Stockings or for some ects you can find an easy to understand project.simple No Sew proj We'd also love to have your submissions of for any projects you've carried out at home
and would like to share with others." how to " articles Sewing Patterns Whether it's the luxury of or the ease of - choosing a pattern is the first step in your new sewing

project. VogueSimplicity Deciding which pattern can be a difficult task (some women have been known to take hours!), read our advice on choosing a sewing pattern for your next outfit. Also,
find out where to shop so that you can when buying your next patterns. save money Tips & Instructions Find " How to Sew " instructions for the simplest of projects, to more complicated tab
top curtains, you'll find easy to follow, step by step instructions. Christmas & Birthday Gifts for Sewing Fanatics Find gifts for friends or family who love to create! and other gift ideas from
Sewing magazines , books Amazon Choosing a machine to give you that "professional" look can be difficult, it's a big investment and it's hard to know who to ask for advice. Is Melco all it's
said to be, which is the best option for your needs? Read our reviews of the popular brands and find when you decide to buy. discounts Online Prices Check out the latest online prices for
new and used items, including machines & sergers, accessories, tables, notions & tools, fabrics and patterns from Simplicity, Butterick, Vogue & McCall and other popular makes. offers a
secure way to buy from proven sellers, often at greatly discounted prices from the recommended retail price. eBay Add your own contribution! We'd love to hear from you and add your
written article or product review to our site - please contact us for further information. Thanks to Henna for the patter images Not found what you were looking for? Use our Search to find
it.