Welcome to the Learning Outcomes Assessment Website at the . The ongoing process of learning outcomes assessment involves all members of the APUS community. Continuous assessment
activities allow us to identify what our students are learning and enables us to improve the student learning environment through our courses and academic programs. American Public
University System Dr. Jennifer Stephens, Dean of Assessment Learning Outcomes Assessment Test for APUS Students The American Public University System uses a variety of assessment
activities designed to document student learning. Degree-seeking students are required to participate in the learning outcomes assessment activities at APUS and will be given adequate notice
of course and non-course related assessment activities they are responsible for completing. Assessments are used for the purpose of continuously improving on our academic programs and
courses. The students! survey results are confidential and are used only to inform the University System of performance in a given area. APUS is committed to protecting the privacy of its
students. This includes ensuring the confidentiality of student work submitted for assessment as well as the feedback resulting from assessment activities. National testing and other
assessment are not calculated into the student's grade point average or considered part of the student's academic performance. Completion of the assessment is required prior to the
studentOs conferral date; however, those who have not completed the required LOA exam will still maintain their conferral date. In the event that the student does not complete the
assessment, APUS will not issue final transcripts or the diploma until the assessment has been completed. Currently, national testing required for degree-seeking undergraduate students and
MBA candidates include: (Mapp) tests are for all undergraduate degree-seeking students. The MAPP is a general education assessment designed to evaluate and improve the
quality of teaching and learning by measuring student achievement in critical thinking, reading, writing, and mathematics Measure of Academic Proficiency & Progress (MFTs)
are in subject-specific areas for undergraduate degree-seeking students in Business Administration, Criminal Justice, History, English, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology. The Major
Field Tests are designed to measure the basic student learning outcomes in these fields of study. Also, graduate degree-seeking students in Business Administration (MBA) are required to take
the Major Field Test. The Major Field Tests are designed to measure basic student learning outcomes in these fields of study. Major Field Tests Read about the that have been utilized at APUS to
engage faculty and administrators in the assessment process. strategies to see a graphical representation of the Learning Outcomes Assessment Program at APUS. Click here Faculty members
- for assistance in developing your course objectives. Click here