General tips for preparing for a job interview by phone. How to Prepare for a Telephone Interview Informational interviewing is an excellent way to learn more about a career you are
considering and an excellent source of networking contacts. This links internally to our Informational Interviews section in our . Informational Interviews Career Networking Center
Thought-provoking tips help you to formulate important interview questions to ask. Free, courtesy of in partnership with TechnicalJobSearch.com. Includes links to Vault's company
research resources. Vault was named the "best place on the Web to prepare for a job search" by and is often included among the "Best of the Web" by . Interview Question Tips Fortune
MagazineForbes Magazine Interview Tips, Techniques & Questions Career Tools Several interview tips from JobWeb, a job site for college students and grads. Includes internship
interviews. Operated by the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE). Interview Tips, Techniques & Types Tips and techniques for before, during and after the interview,
including samples of common questions organized by type. From Virginia U. Career Services. Because it's in PDF format, you'll need the free . Interviewing for Employment Adobe Reader
The basics, courtesy of the U.S. Department of Labor. Part of the section "Finding a Job and Evaluating a Job Offer". Job Interview Tips Briefly, what one-on-one, committee, stress,
screening, group, telephone and lunch interviews are about, each with tips for success. Also includes sample practice questions with tips for answering, and questions to ask. Job Interview
Types A series of streaming (online) videos about interviewing and other job-search topics, from CollegeGrad. They run in the free media player built into most versions of Microsoft
Windows. CollegeGrad provides the download link if you don't have the player. Includes text interview tips and techniques, plus sample questions. Job Interview Videos Primarily targeted
to interviewers, but just as useful for interviewees to get the "inside scoop" on what's permitted and what's not. Includes illegal questions and their legal equivalents. Courtesy of the
University of Kansas Medical Center, Equal Opportunity Office. Legal Issues About variety in your answers, exercising interpersonal skills, managing stress while facing the firing squad,
and more. Provides tips for other interview types too. Panel Interview Tips & Techniques Before tips, including researching a company to answer the common question "Why do you want
to work for us?" Includes a link to company research resources. Preparing If you're specifically looking for technical question samples, tips, techniques, brainteasers and such, start here
Technical Interview Tips, Techniques & Questions Questions with multiple-choice answers that give you immediate feedback, courtesy of Western State College of Colorado. Virtual
Interview Practice Practice answering "puffball to killer" questions online. Monster.com offers many more resources for free. with "My Monster" to manage your job search, post your
resume and customize your jobs by email options. It's all free. Virtual Interview Practice