5 Further reading [] edit Life and work Archytas was born in , (now ) and was the son of Mnesagoras or Histiaeus. For a while, he was taught by , and was a teacher of mathematics to
Archytas and Eudoxus' student was . Tarentum Magna Graecia Italy Philolaus Eudoxus of Cnidus Menaechmus Archytas Archytas is believed to be the founder of mathematical . As only
described in the writings of five centuries after him, he was reputed to have designed and built the first artificial, self-propelled flying device, a bird-shaped model propelled by a jet of
what was probably steam, said to have actually flown some 200 meters. This machine, which its inventor called , may have been suspended on a wire or pivot for its flight. Archytas also
wrote some lost works, as he was included by in the list of the twelve authors of works of mechanics. Thomas Winter has suggested that the pseudo-Aristotelian is an important
mechanical work by Archytas, not lost after all, but misattributed. mechanics [1] Aulus Gellius [2] [3] The Pigeon [4] [5] Vitruvius [6] Mechanical Problems [7] According to , Archytas
solved the problem of in his manner with a geometric construction. before, reduced this problem to finding mean . Archytas' theory of proportions is treated in book VII of 's , where is the
construction for two proportional means, equivalent to the extraction of the . According to , this demonstration, which uses lines generated by moving figures to construct the two
proportionals between magnitudes, was the first in which geometry was studied with concepts of mechanics. The , which he used in his solution of the doubling the cube problem, is named
after him. Eutocius doubling the cube [8] Hippocrates of Chios proportionals Euclid Elements cube root Diogenes Laertius [9] Archytas curve Politically and militarily, Archytas appears to
have been the dominant figure in Tarentum in his generation, somewhat comparable to in a half-century earlier. The Tarentines elected him , general, seven years in a row a step that
required them to violate their own rule against successive appointments. He was allegedly undefeated as a general, in Tarentine campaigns against their southern Italian neighbors. The of
asserts that Archytas attempted to rescue Plato during his difficulties with of . In his public career, Archytas had a reputation for virtue as well as efficacy. Some scholars have argued that
Archytas may have served as one model for Plato's , and that he influenced Plato's political philosophy as expressed in and other works (i.e., how does a society obtain good rulers like
Archytas, instead of bad ones like Dionysus II?). Pericles Athens strategos Seventh Letter Plato Dionysius II Syracuse philosopher king The Republic Archytas drowned in a shipwreck in
the sea of . His body lay unburied on the shore till a sailor humanely cast a handful of sand on it. Otherwise, he would have had to wander on this side the for a hundred years, such the
virtue of a little dust, , as calls it, Mattinata Styx munera pulveris Horace The crater on the is named in his honour. Archytas Moon [] edit The Archytas Curve This section does not any
cite references or sources Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and removed. improve this section reliable sources Unverifiable (May 2008) The is created by
placing a semicircle (with a diameter of d) on the diameter of one of the two circles of a cylinder (which also has a diameter of d) and then rotating the semicircle about the cylinder's
diameter. This rotation will cut out a portion of the cylinder forming the Archytas Curve. Another, less mathematical, way of thinking of this construction is that the Archytas Curve is
basically the result of cutting out a hemisphere of diameter d out of a cylinder also of diameter d. A cone can go through the same procedures also producing the Archytas Curve. Archytas
used his curve to determine the construction of a cube with a volume of half of that of a given cube.Archytas Curve