[] edit History Amphorae first appeared on the - coast around the 15th century BC and spread around the ancient world, being used by the and as the principal means for transporting and
storing, ,,,,,, and other . They were produced on an industrial scale from Greek times and used around the until about the 7th century. Wooden and skin containers seem to have
supplanted amphorae thereafter. Lebanese Syrian ancient Greeks Romans grapes olive oil wine oil olives grain fish commodities Mediterranean They are of great benefit to , as amphorae
in a can often indicate the age of the wreck and geographic origin of the cargo. They are occasionally so well preserved that the original contents are still present, providing invaluable
information on the eating habits and trading systems of the ancient Mediterranean peoples. Amphorae were too cheap and plentiful to return their origin-point and so, when empty, they
were broken up at their destination. In Rome this happened in an area named , close to , in such a way that the fragments, later wetted with (), remained to create a now named 45
meters tall and more than 1 km circumference. maritime archaeologists shipwreck Testaccio Tiber Calcium hydroxide Calce viva hill Monte Testaccio High-quality painted amphorae were
produced in significant numbers for a variety of social and ceremonial purposes. Their design differs significantly from the more functional versions; they are typified by wide mouth and a
ring base, with a glazed surface and decorated with figures or geometric shapes. Such were often used as prizes. Some examples, bearing the inscription "I am one of the prizes from
Athens", have survived from the held between the 6th century BC to the 2nd century BC. Painted amphorae were also used for funerary purposes. The , a type of amphora, was used
principally for funeral rites. Outsize vases were also used as grave markers, while some amphorae were used as containers for the ashes of the dead. amphorae Panathenaic Festivals
loutrophoros Large late Geometric Attic amphora, ca. 725 BC 700 BC. [] edit Forms and sizes Two principal types of amphora existed: the neck amphora, in which the neck and body
meet at a sharp angle; and the one-piece amphora, in which the neck and body form a continuous curve. Neck amphorae were commonly used in the early history of ancient Greece but
were gradually replaced by the one-piece type from around the 7th century BC onwards. Most were produced with a pointed base to allow them to be stored in an upright position by being
partly embedded in sand or soft ground. This also facilitated transport by ship, where the amphorae were tightly packed together, with ropes passed through their handles to prevent
breaking or toppling during a rough sea voyage. Amphorae varied greatly in height. The largest could stand as much as 1.5 m (5 ft) high, while some were under 30 cm (12 inches) high -
the smallest were called (literally "little amphorae"). Most were around 45 cm (18 inches) high. There was a significant degree of standardisation in some variants; the wine amphora held
a standard measure of about 39 litres (41 quarts), giving rise to the as a unit of measure in the . In all, around 66 distinct types of amphora have been identified.amphoriskoi amphora
quadrantal Roman Empire