[] edit Leaves Its leaves are alternate, long-petioled, deciduous, oval to nearly circular, cordate at the base, 7.5-12.5 cm long. Young leaves are coated with red hairs; mature leaves are
dark-green and hairless on the upper surface, downy-white with prominent, light-colored veins beneath. [1] [] edit Flowers The flowers are fragrant, dioecious or bisexual, borne singly
or in 3's in the leaf axils, are 5- to 6-petalled, white at first, changing to buff-yellow, 2.5-5 cm broad, and both sexes have central tufts of many stamens though those of the female
flowers with no viable pollen. The flowers also lack nectar. [1] It flowers in November. Male and female flowers appear on different plants (dioecious) and both sexes have to be planted
in close proximity for fruit set. Bees are normally used by commercial orchards, although the more labour intensive hand pollination is sometimes employed. Male flowers are gathered
and processed to extract their pollen. This is then sprayed back on to the female flowers. Main article: kiwifruit The oblong fruits are up to 6.25 cm long. The russet-brown skin of the
fruits is densely covered with short, stiff brown hairs. The flesh is firm until fully ripen; it is glistening, juicy and luscious. The color of the flesh is bright-green, or sometimes yellow,
brownish or off-white, except for the white, succulent center from which radiate many fine, pale lines. The flavor is subacid to quite acid; it is suggested that it is similar to the flavors of
the or . gooseberry strawberry [1] [] edit Varieties and cultivars There are two botanical : varieties var.Actinidia deliciosachlorocarpa_var.Actinidia deliciosadeliciosa_ Zhong Hua
(Chinese gooseberry), Jing Li (northern pear gooseberry), Ruan Zao (Soft date gooseberry)and Mao Hua (may be tight- or loose-haired) are 4 main of this species in China. Abbott, Allison,
Bruno, Hayward, Monty (Montgomery) and Greensill are the most significant cultivars in . cultivars New Zealand [] edit History In 1847, Specimens of the plant were collected by the
agent for the , . Royal Horticultural Society London [1] Cultivation spread from China in the early 20th century when seeds were introduced to by Isabel Fraser, the principal of Wanganui
Girls' College, who had been visiting mission schools in China. The seeds were planted in 1906 by a Wanganui nurseryman, Alexander Allison, with the vines first fruiting in 1910. New
Zealand People who tasted the fruit then thought it had a gooseberry flavour and began to call it the Chinese Gooseberry, but being from the actinidia family it is not related to the ()
family. Grossulariaceae gooseberry The familiar cultivar 'Hayward' was developed by Hayward Wright in Avondale, New Zealand around 1924. This is the most widely grown cultivar in
the world. Chinese Gooseberry was initially grown in domestic gardens, but commercial planting began in the 1940s.Actinidia deliciosa In 1959, Turners and Growers named it, Kiwifruit,
after New Zealand's national bird, the - brown and furry. kiwi Italy is now the leading producer of kiwifruit in the world, followed by New Zealand, Chile, France, Greece, Japan and the
United States. kiwifruit is still produced in its birthplace China, but China has never made it to the top 10 list of kiwifruit producing countries. In China, it is grown mainly in the
mountainous area upstream of the Yangtze River. It is also grown in other areas of China, including . Sichuan