Main article: Ric Bucher During a radio broadcast on April 16, 2008, Bucher opined that the are strong at home because of the team's "vicious", "" fans: Utah Jazz Mormon [52] "It is the
most intimidating place to play because of the configuration of the arena... and, let's be honest... they are Mormon. They are in St Lake, and there's nothing up there. [Mormons] gotta
smile and be happy all the time... and this is the one opportunity for people to get vicious in a fair arena. And the fans seem to take full advantage of it." [52] Bucher later apologized for
the remarks. [53] Main articles: and Colin Cowherd The Herd with Colin Cowherd - In November 2005, Cowherd was criticized by former ESPN , George Solomon for his treatment of the
death of (WWE) wrestler . Colin was quoted as saying "he passed away doing ", implying that Guerreros death had been caused by steroid use. According to Dr. Kathryn Berg, the
assistant chief medical examiner for Hennepin County in Minnesota, the autopsy showed that Guerrero died from a hardening and narrowing of the arteries that supply blood and oxygen to
the heart. He had an enlarged heart and other enlarged organs related to a history of anabolic steroid use.Eddie Guerrero's Death ombudsman World Wrestling Entertainment Eddie
Guerrero steroids [54] - In March 2006, Cowherd was criticized for using a joke on his show that was posted on the "M Zone", a fan without crediting it. Cowherd later apologized on-air
and gave the M Zone full credit for the material. The M Zone response: "He was very cool about everything. This incident is now resolved and over."Using Un-attributed Material University
of Michigan blog [55] - On April 5, 2007, listeners of knocked The Big Lead blog site offline. Cowherd directed his listeners to access the web site home page simultaneously which
resulted in a massive increase in traffic. The blog site's servers were not capable of handling so many users at one time so the site was knocked off-line for approximately 96 hours.
ESPN's new , Le Anne Schreiber wrote an article sharing her (negative) opinion of Cowherd's actions. Schreiber contacted Traug Keller, a at ESPN Radio, and Keller indicated that Cowherd
would face no disciplinary action for the stunt, because there had been no policy against such a tactic at the time. To prevent this from happening again, Keller instituted a zero tolerance
policy of such activities in the future.Knocks Blog OfflineThe HerdThe Herd Ombudsman Senior Vice President [56] - Cowherd was criticized for comments made regarding the
circumstances surrounding 's death. On November 28, 2007, one day after Taylor's home invasion murder, Cowherd claimed that Taylor's past had brought this upon himself, and that
Redskins fans who mourned him were not "grown ups." Cowherd stated about Taylor's turnaround; "Well, yeah, just because you clean the rug doesn't mean you got everything out.
Sometimes you've got stains, stuff so deep it never ever leaves. Taylor's death was later found to be the result of a botched robbery, and the robbers hadn't known Taylor was home
when they entered.Sean Taylor's Murder Sean Taylor [57] Main article: Gregg Easterbrook Gregg Easterbrook, who writes the weekly article during the NFL season on section, was fired
from ESPN in 2003 after a blog he had written for in which he was critical of what he considered to be the senseless violence in the film . Easterbrook wrote the following: Tuesday
Morning Quarterback ESPN.com's Page 2 The New Republic Online Quentin Tarantino Kill Bill Set aside what it says about Hollywood that today even Disney thinks what the public needs is
ever-more-graphic depictions of killing the innocent as cool amusement. Disney's CEO, , is Jewish; the chief of , , is Jewish. Yes, there are plenty of Christian and other Hollywood
executives who worship money above all else, promoting for profit the adulation of violence. Does that make it right for Jewish executives to worship money above all else, by promoting
for profit the adulation of violence? ought to cause Jewish executives to experience second thoughts about glorifying the killing of the helpless as a fun lifestyle choice. Michael Eisner
Miramax Harvey Weinstein Recent European history alone This caused an uproar and accusations that Easterbrook and were . Easterbrook wrote that he "mangled" his own ideas by his
choice of words and wrote the following to explain his thought process and to apologize:The New Republic anti-semitic [58] Twenty minutes after I pressed "send," the entire world had
read it. When I reread my own words and beheld how I'd written things that could be misunderstood, I felt awful. To anyone who was offended I offer my apology, because offense was not
my intent, But it was 20 minutes later, and already the whole world had seen it... My attempt to connect my perfectly justified horror at an ugly and corrupting movie to the religious faith
and ethnic identity of certain executives was hopelessly clumsy...accusing a Christian of adoring money above alll else does not engage any history of ugly stereotypes. Accuse a Jewish
person of this and you invoke a thousand years of stereotypes about that which Jews have specific historical reasons to fear. What I wrote here was simply wrong, and for being wrong, I
apologize. He further explained that he worships at , one of the handful of joint Christian-Jewish congregations in the United States. Easterbrook had previously written in a column that
"One of the shortcomings of Christianity is that most adherents downplay the faith's interweaving with Judaism" and indicated that he and his family sought out a place where Christians
and Jews express their faith cooperatively. accepted blame for the piece in an apology and denied that his comments were intentionally anti-semitic. Easterbrook continued to blog for
them, and still writes articles on (especially the damage caused by ), and other subjects. Bradley Hills Presbyterian Church The New Republic [59] environmentalism sport utility vehicles
religion After Easterbrook's firing, moved to NFL.com while Easterbrook himself became an analyst for the then-fledgling . In 2006, after was ousted at Disney, Easterbrook was rehired
by ESPN, and returned to ESPN.com.Tuesday Morning Quarterback NFL Network Michael Eisner Tuesday Morning Quarterback Main article: Ron Franklin On October 1, 2005, according to
the , during a game between and that Franklin was calling, sideline reporter lauded defensive coordinator for using all three timeouts on defense despite trailing by four touchdowns late in
the game. "If the coaches are giving up," Rowe added, "what does that say to the players?" Franklin responded: "Holly, it's not giving up. It's 49-21, sweetheart. Chicago Tribune Notre
Dame Purdue Holly Rowe Purdue Brock Spack In response to that, , senior coordinating producer for college football said, "It was an inappropriate comment, and we've communicated
that to Ron. There's never a reason to say something so mean-spirited. Ron apologized. We dealt with it internally." Mo Davenport Ever since Franklin was dropped from the Saturday
primetime games on in 2005, many fans and bloggers have expressed their displeasure with the demotion. Even of wrote about how many people were displeased about the move.
However, in response to this, Franklin has simply said: ESPN Richard Deitsch SI.com [60] You don't do something as long as I did and not miss it. I've taken the high road on this and I
really haven't said anything negative to anybody. I really don't want to start now. But I don't know if that opportunity will afford itself again. For Franklin fans, the good news is that he
doesn't plan on hanging it up anytime soon. T'll be 65 in a month, but I'm a long way from wanting to retire. January 2007 Main article: Jim Gray (sportscaster) While some have been
critical of Gray for being abrasive in interviews, others have also criticized him for giving soft interviews. Gray has been known for his close relationship with , which showed in the
immediate aftermath of Bryant's situation (the night when the news broke, Gray appeared on in defense of Bryant's character) and in several sideline interviews. It was Gray whom Bryant
phoned to vent about teammate in (a phone call that started one of O'Neal and Bryant's ). Also, some found Gray's interview with maligned baseball player in 2006 to be too soft. Kobe
Bryant sexual assault SportsCenter [61] Shaquille O'Neal October of that year worst disagreements [62] Barry Bonds Main article: Todd Harris In 2004, Harris began his involvement with
ABC and ESPN's coverage of the . He was assigned to be a pit reporter for their coverage after joining the network for motocross and X Games coverage. IRL IndyCar Series In 2005,
Harris was promoted to be ABC and ESPN's new lap-by-lap announcer of the IRL, replacing . Fans who met the popular Page (widely considered as voice for U.S. open wheel racing) at
events after the announcement said he was shocked and disappointed by the decision. Other race fans believe Disney has made bad calls with announcers, first with leaving the network
after the 2003 season, and also with pit reporters , son of the Stafford (CT) Motor Speedway owner, and , who substituted for Jenkins frequently on NASCAR broadcasts in the late 1990s,
including last NASCAR win in 2000, whom some believed should have taken the role of lap-by-lap. Paul Page the Bob Jenkins Jack Arute, Jr. Jerry Punch Dale Earnhardt, Sr.'s_and in
particular, Todd Harris were widely criticized by sportswriters after the race for their coverage of the . ABC Sports 2005 Indianapolis 500 One of the most significant events in the race
was that a female racer , who started and finished 4th, lead 19 laps in the process, becoming the first woman ever to lead the race. Even when Patrick was running mid-pack, as she had
through the middle portion of the race, ABC and Harris focused significant attention on her. This angered several columnists, who thought the frontrunners deserved more coverage than
they received. Danica Patrick When Patrick took the race lead on lap 59 (partly because most of the frontrunners had pitted, and Patrick opted to stay out), the first time a woman led a
lap in the Indy 500, Harris said, "50 years from now, you will remember where you were." sportswriter disputed this, writing the next day, "I seriously doubt it, Todd." Greene also wrote
that Harris "said many stupid things Sunday because of Ms. Patrick's efforts." Orlando Sentinel Jerry Greene writer said during the pre-race show and the race's first 90 minutes, he
"counted an average of one Patrick reference every five minutes, and each reference went on for some time." Houston Chronicle David Barron writer wrote that Harris and his analyst,
former two-time Indy 500 runner-up , failed to note that Wheldon had overtaken Patrick on lap 193, seven from the finish, until 20 seconds after it happened. Sandomir also wrote that it
took Harris thirty seconds to note Patrick had drifted back to fourth place, behind and . Toronto Star Richard Sandomir Scott Goodyear Vitor Meira Bryan Herta of the mentioned Page in
his review, saying, "Viewers lose. [Page's] professionalism was missed. Harris enthusiasm for the event was over the edge. Lundquist also wrote, "Either [Harris] was told to or took it
on himself to become Patrick's personal flack." Jerry Lundquist Richmond Times-Dispatch writer said that in the final laps, Harris "raised the volume in what seemed suspiciously like
rooting for Patrick." Two days later, on May 31, Zipay appeared on sportscaster 's radio show on radio network, and wondered if ABC seemed like too much of a cheerleader for Patrick
Newsday Steve Zipay Tim Brando ' The Sporting News Main article: Lou Holtz On October 18, 2008 ESPN analyst Lou Holtz apologized on air for mentioning during a college football
studio show the previous night. The former Notre Dame coach said "Ya know, Hitler was a great leader too," while attempting to make a point about good and bad leadership during a
discussion of the struggles of first-year Michigan coach . Adolf Hitler [63] Rich Rodriguez Main article: Jason Jackson Jackson was fired from ESPN in 2002 for allegedly making comments
in e-mails to colleagues that had sexual overtones and were deemed inappropriate. [64] Main article: Dana Jacobson At a roast for co-workers and in January 2008, an intoxicated
Jacobson reportedly said, "Fuck Notre Dame." "Fuck ." "Fuck Jesus." ESPN has released a statement apologizing for any offense given to the Notre Dame Football program while not
specifically addressing the remarks that Jacobson made nor releasing any video or transcripts of her remarks. Mike Greenberg Mike Golic Touchdown Jesus [65] [66] [67] [68] Main
article: Brian Kinchen He was a commentator for but was suspended after making a comment during a game that receivers needed to use their soft hands to "caress" the ball and
responding to his comment as "kinda gay." ESPNU [69] Main article: Tony Kornheiser While earning a name as a critic of many people and organizations, he is famously averse to
criticism himself. wrote for Slate that Tony Kornheiser was allowed by ESPN to argue aimlessly on television and that his column was being used to plug side projects rather than gather
news from cited sources. Kornheiser called on Slate, then owned by , to fire Rodrick. [70] Stephen Rodrick Washington Post [71] The Washington Post [72] After Kornheiser's first game
on , wrote in that Kornheiser had emphasized the obvious, played third fiddle, and was reminiscent of "in a bad way." Kornheiser responded saying that Farhi was a "two-bit weasel slug"
and his own newspaper had back-stabbed him during an interview on on August 15, 2006. His response generated more criticism from and other media outlets. Monday Night Football Paul
Farhi The Washington Post Dennis Miller [73] The Dan Patrick Show The Washington Post [74] , an ESPN colleague of Kornheiser's, who had expressed skepticism regarding his prospects
as an on-air analyst because he was never an athlete, said that his performance on was fine. Kornheiser's response was, I just want to wring Golic s neck and hang him up over the back
of a shower rod like a duck. Mike Golic [75] MNF [76] During the , , broadcast, Kornheiser issued a vague apology almost two quarters after he joked about not being able to understand
what a Spanish-language broadcaster was saying. He also earned a rebuke from commentator during the same game. After linebacker "read" the intended receiver and deflected a pass
without turning around, Kornheiser insisted the play was simply fortunate, even though this type of coverage is taught at the youth league level. Sept. 15 2008 Ron Jaworski Cowboys Zach
Thomas Kornheiser refers to on as "He Who Shall Not Be Named" due to Mariotti taking over from him in 2004. Jay Mariotti Pardon the Interruption ESPN 1000 [77] Main article: Mark
Madden On May 27, 2008, the reported that Madden had been fired by ESPN. This transpired after Madden made inflammatory comments regarding on his radio show Wednesday May 21,
2008. He stated "I'm very disappointed to hear Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts is near death because of a . I always hoped Senator Kennedy would live long enough to be
assassinated. And I wonder if he will receive a get well card from the family." Pittsburgh Post-Gazette [78] Senator Ted Kennedy brain tumor Kopechne Two hours after making the
statement, under pressure from station management, Madden backtracked. 1250 announced on Monday, May 26, 2008, that Madden was suspended from his radio show. WEAE [79] His
last appearance on ESPN Radio 1250 was May 22, 2008. Main article: Dave O'Brien O'Brien teamed up with former captain for the as the play-by play man on the ESPN and ' primary
announcing team. O'Brien and Balboa called the most prominent games of the tournament with their commentary generating controversy for several reasons, notably some questionable
statements made on-air. ESPN and ABC stated that their broadcast strategy was intended, in voice and style, to target the vast majority of Americans who do not follow the sport on a
regular basis. In 2007, Balboa was replaced on ESPN's soccer coverage. For 2008, ESPN put O'Brien solely on its baseball coverage so that he will miss fewer games, with taking over
soccer duties. U.S. national soccer team Marcelo Balboa 2006 World Cup ABC Sports [80] Boston Red Sox JP Dellacamera Main article: Keith Olbermann In 1997, Olbermann abruptly left
ESPN under a cloud of controversy, apparently burning his bridges with the network's management. This began a long and drawn out feud between Olbermann and ESPN. During the time
between 1997 and 2007 incidents between the two sides included Olbermann publishing an essay on in November 2002 entitled "Mea Culpa" in which he conceded that his own insecurities
and neurotic behavior had led to many of his problems at work. The essay told of an instance of where his former bosses remarked he had "too much backbone," - which is literally true
Olbermann has six instead of the normal five. In 2004, ESPN famously snubbed him from the guest lineup of its 25th Anniversary "Reunion Week," which saw the likes of personalities such
as and return to the set. In 2007, ten years after Olbermann's departure, in an appearance on , he said "If you burn a bridge, you can possibly build a new bridge, but if there's no river
any more, that's a lot of trouble." During the same interview, Olbermann stated that he recently learned that as a result of ESPN agreeing to let him back on the airwaves, he was banned
from ESPN's main campus. [81] Salon.com [82] lumbar vertebrae [82] SportsCenter Craig Kilborn Charley Steiner SportsCenter The Late Show with David Letterman [83] Bristol,
Connecticut [83] Main article: Woody Paige On June 28, 2007 it was reported that a former makeup artist for was suing ESPN, alleging incidents of sexual harassment against host , and
Paige. Both Crawford and Paige have denied these allegations. Cold Pizza Jay Crawford [84] Little follow-up of this story has taken place, likely because Paige has returned to a role in
print journalism. His colleagues generally steer clear of addressing issues that involve other print journalists, even as they pursue articles with the same level of allegations against people
in other professions. Main article: Steve Phillips Phillips was hired as a baseball analyst for prior to the 2005 baseball season, and serves as a regular anchor on the nightly program and
He primarily serves as a game analyst during telecasts. ESPN Baseball Tonight SportsCenter Wednesday Night Baseball His analysis is often met with criticism. While some appreciate
the insight of the former Major League insider, others consider him to make relatively safe predictions with little said of interest. He was extremely critical of the Rule V Draft acquisition, ,
suggesting that the Reds were condoning Hamilton's years of substance abuse and other off-the-field problems. Some have noted the irony that Phillips was given his own second chance
after some missteps in his private life while serving as the General Manager. Phillips is often critical of the . In both 2006 and 2007, he said that they would have no chance of making the
playoffs. However, the Yankees made the playoffs in both seasons, winning the AL East in 2006 and earning the AL Wild Card spot in 2007 after losing the divisional race to the .[] citation
needed [] citation needed Cincinnati Reds Josh Hamilton [85] [] who? Mets [] citation needed New York Yankees Boston Red Sox He has also said in 2006 that the Yankees would definitely
trade then in 2007, said Rodriguez would definitely opt out and leave the Yankees. Rodriguez was neither traded nor left, although he was right that Rodriguez would opt out of his
contract, he would later resign with the team. Alex Rodriguez Main article: Harold Reynolds On July 25, , Harold Reynolds was fired from ESPN. The ESPN spokeswoman confirmed that
Reynolds "is no longer with the network" but did not give a reason for the departure. "Three people who work at ESPN and familiar with the case said the cause was a pattern of sexual
harassment." Reynolds confirmed that an accusation of sexual harassment was the reason for his departure but called it "a total misunderstanding" and that "I gave a woman a hug and I
felt like it was misinterpreted." 2006 [86] [87] [88] It was announced on October 30, 2006 that Reynolds planned to sue ESPN after having tried "everything possible to handle this
situation quietly behind the scenes," while stating that he is seeking the money owed to him under the remainder of his contract, including interest and lost earnings. He is also asking the
court for damages for lost future opportunities. [89] obtained a copy of Reynolds! contract that was filed as part of the lawsuit. Reynolds lawsuit is for $5m, roughly equivalent to the
value of the contract Reynolds signed that was scheduled to cover the 2006 2011 seasons. The Smoking Gun [90] Main article: Sean Salisbury After getting his start on the show ,
Salisbury went on to become an NFL analyst on , appearing on and . He is well known for the good-natured teasing of fellow analyst in the segment "Four Downs". Clayton once famously
got back at Salisbury. During an argument, Salisbury attempted to prove his point by telling Clayton, "You never played in the NFL." Clayton, noting that Salisbury spent most of his career
as a backup quarterback on the sidelines (he received about a year's worth of NFL snaps in an eight-year career), fired back, "Neither did you!" Comedy Central BattleBots ESPN
SportsCenter NFL Live John Clayton SportsCenter On February 26, 2008 Salisbury's contract was not renewed by ESPN. Salisbury suggested, according to , that he was unhappy with his
salary and status compared to those analysts who were more prominent players in their NFL careers. Salisbury explained, saying that I d grown tired of being punished for not being an
NFL superstar, He also complained that analysts who don t work as hard as me, don t prepare as hard as me, and don t have my resume were making more than me just because of their
ability to throw or catch a football. Profootballtalk.com [91] In the fall of 2006, Salisbury was suspended by for one week, allegedly for indecent exposure. A column in the by on January
19, 2007 confirmed the suspension. According to the allegations, Salisbury took a picture of his penis with a cell phone and showed it to many women who worked at the station. ESPN
[92] New York Post Phil Mushnick [93] Main article: Danyelle Sargent Sargent was the product of minor controversy on March 9, 2006 when Sargent was co-anchoring a live broadcast of
and a series of technical difficulties occurred, leading ESPN to air a taped segment played. Thinking their microphones had been cut (which is the normal procedure when airing a taped
segment), she exclaimed "What the fuck was that?" over the broadcast. ESPNEWS [94] Main article: Stuart Scott At , Scott was part of a duo with which made both famous. His use of
non-standard English elevated his profile as a sports broadcaster, but also made him the target of criticism. Scott's supporters insist his style effectively taps into and regurgitates the
hip-hop language and culture of a youth demographic critical to ESPN's ratings success. But most observers see it as contrived, overwrought faux-hipness with nothing more than a
marketing-inspired persona. Others have condemned Scott for plagiarism. One of his most famous oft-repeated phrases, "he's as cool as the other side of the pillow", was lifted from at
least one other sports commentator (, former NFL great and analyst for the ' radio broadcasts. He occasionally used this line throughout the 1980s to characterize the composed play of
legendary quarterback . It has not been confirmed that Scott has publicly acknowledged Walker's authorship or prior usage of this phrase) : and parodied him on . SportsCenter Rich Eisen
Wayne Walker San Francisco 49ers Joe Montana [95] Tim Meadows Finesse Mitchell Saturday Night Live Main article: Bill_Simmons#Controversy Currently, Bill Simmons appears to be
embroiled in a feud with management at ESPN.com. When asked by the editors of Deadspin.com why he had not written a new column in over 2 weeks, he replied'T still love writing my
column and only re-signed last year because I really did believe that we had hashed out all the behind the scenes bullshit and come to some sort of agreement on creative lines, media
criticism rules, the promotion of the column and everything else on ESPN.com. Within a few months, all of those things changed and certain promises were not kept. It's as simple as
that." [96] [97] Main article: Dick Vitale Vitale is often criticized for being a "homer" for , especially for Coach , as well as most teams in the . He is also known for mentioning Duke
frequently during broadcasts, even when Duke is not playing. head coach once said "You can't get Dick Vitale to say 15 words without Duke coming out of his mouth". He is also called
"Duke Vitale" or "Dookie V", a take-off on his "Dickie V" nickname, by detractors for the same reason. Although his bias towards Duke is widely speculated by many, he is also believed to
favor the entire in general, including Duke's rival, . Duke Mike Krzyzewski ACC Temple John Chaney [98] ACC North Carolina Main articles: and Jason Whitlock The Sports Reporters
When Jason Whitlock was interviewed by sports blog The Big Lead, he disparaged two of his ESPN colleagues. Whitlock labeled , and referred to as a "clown", saying that Jackson and
Whitlock are both . [99] Mike Lupica "an insecure, mean-spirited busybody" Robert "Scoop" Jackson "the publishing of [Jackson's] fake ghetto posturing is an insult to black intelligence."
African-American After those comments were made public, Whitlock stopped appearing on ESPN and soon announced to readers in September 2006 that he was fired altogether from
ESPN as a result of his remarks; he wrote that the company doesn't tolerate criticism and acted as they saw fit.The Kansas City Star [100]