6 External links [] edit Creation and syndication Much of origin was Canadian. Two of the series three creators, comedy writers and , were from Canada. , the third, was from New York.
From 1969 until the late 1980s, was produced by Yongestreet Productions, named after , the major thoroughfare in. The production company's name was a testament to Hee Haw's
Canadian roots.Hee Haw's Frank Peppiatt John Aylesworth Bernie Brillstein Hee Haw Yonge Street Toronto, Ontario started on as a summer replacement for . Though the show had
respectable ratings, it was dropped in July, 1971 by CBS as part of the so-called in , along with fellow country shows , and , due to network executives feeling that its viewers reflected
the "wrong" demographics (e.g. rural, somewhat older, and less affluent). Undaunted, the producers put together a deal for the show, which continued in basically the same format for 20
more years (though Owens departed in ). In many markets, it competed in syndication (usually on early Saturday evenings) against , which, for some of the same reasons, was also
cancelled and resurrected in syndication in 1971. (In a few areas, and were shown back-to-back.)Hee Haw CBS 1969 The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour Rural Purge 1971 The Beverly
Hillbillies Mayberry R.F.D. Green Acres syndication 1986 The Lawrence Welk Show Hee HawWelk By , a continued decline in its audience led to a dramatic change with more pop-oriented
country music, in an ill-fated attempt to gain younger viewers. The new format (titled , which had taken the cornfield out, and replaced it with a city street and a shopping mall) lasted a
single season, during which the show alienated many of its longtime viewers. In its final season, the now renamed featured Clark hosting a mixture of classic clips and new footage. 1991
The Hee Haw Show 1992 Hee Haw Silver After the show's syndication run ended, aired on until . Its 21 years in TV syndication was the record for a U.S. program, until surpassed it in
1993. Subsequently, surpassed it in 2003 and surpassed it in 2005. In 2006, surpassed it also, making currently the fifth-longest-running off-network American TV program. reruns The
Nashville Network 1997 Soul Train Entertainment Tonight Wheel of Fortune Jeopardy! Hee Haw On July 17, 2006, announced that it would begin rerunning the series starting July 29, and
reruns began in late September. The channel hosted a marathon of episodes on January 1, 2007 but the show has only aired sporadically since, with only three episodes airing from that
time (March 13, July 7 and July 8) to the present. The show is no longer broadcast by CMT. CMT In April 2007, the "" network recognized the long running series with an award presented
by . In attendance were Roy Clark, Gunilla Hutton, , the Hager twins, Linda Thompson, and others. TV Land k.d. lang Barbi Benton Misty Rowe On August 12, 2008, announced that "Hee
Haw" would return to a regular weekly TV slot premiering on RFD-TV Sept. 7, 2008. "Hee Haw" episodes anchor RFD-TV's Sunday night lineup, at 8PM Eastern; episodes repeat Monday at
10AM Eastern, RFD-TV airs "Hee Haw" episodes in the same order they were originally televised. RFD-TV [] edit Cast members Two rural-style comedians, already well known in their
native Canada, gained their first major U.S. exposure and (whose KORN Radio character, newscaster Charlie Farquharson, had been a fixture of Canadian television since 1952 and later
appeared on ). Gordie Tapp Don Harron The Red Green Show Other cast members over the years included: (the King of Country Music), , Cathy Baker, Jennifer Bishop, , Marianne
Gordon, the (Jim and John), (as "Nurse Goodbody"), , , The Buckaroos (, Jim Shaw, , Jerry Wiggins, Doyle Singer, Ronnie Jackson, Terry Christoffersen, Doyle Holly), (reprising his TM"
character from ),,,,,,+,+,,ReV.,,,,,,and the team of and Jackie Phelps, among many others. Original cast member was murdered, along with his wife, in November 1973 during a
robbery at his home. Roy Acuff Barbi Benton Archie Campbell Hager Twins Gunilla Hutton Grandpa Jones Susan Raye Don Rich Jerry Brightman George Lindsey Goober The Andy Griffith
Show Irlene Mandrell Minnie Pearl Linda Thompson Kenny Price Lulu Roman Misty Rowe Junior Samples Jeff Smith Grady Nutt John Henry Faulk Jonathan Winters Slim Pickens Gailard
Sartain Roni Stoneman Jimmie Riddle David "Stringbean" Akeman [] edit Recurring skits and segments Some of the most beloved sketches and segments on included, but were by no
means limited to:Hee Haw , a comedic duet featured on the premiere episode and holds firm as one of the series' most endearing sketches. In early seasons, the song was performed by
Campbell and Tapp , in the vein of folk songs like "TM and "." In later seasons, Tapp would be increasingly replaced by that episode's guest singer, or another surprise celebrity (normally if
it were a guest, their name would be included in the lyrics of the song before they would sing the refrain). Tapp, or whoever it was, would often stand with their back to the viewer while
Campbell sang the new, humorous verse solo, holding a . At the end of the verse, Campbell would elbow Tapp or the guest (as a comedic visual ), who would then spin around to join him
on the chorus:"PFFT! You Was Gone!"(both with solemn looks on their faces) Oh! Susanna Old Dan Tucker scythe cue (Tapp would react as if awoken by the elbow) "Where, oh where, are
you tonight? Why did you leave me here all alone? I searched the world over, and I thought I'd found true love, Then you met another, and PFFT! You was gone! The "PFFT" would be
done as a spitting "TM, and occasionally, they would break up into laughter after the "PFFT", unable to finish the song Following Campbell's death, whole groups and even females would be
part of the refrain, with future regular George Lindsay often singing the first verse. Occasionally, in the later years, Roni Stoneman (in her role as Ida Lee Nagger) would sometimes do the
first verse. In some episodes, which had several major guest stars, the routine appeared several times in the show so that each guest would have the chance to be part of this tradition
Bronx cheer (Who got spat upon during the "PFFT" would change each show.) "Hee Haw" magazine (Vol. 1, No. 2, July 1970, A Charlton Publication) attributes this song to Susan Heather
(a used by Marian B. Yarneall), (c) 1952, 1965 by Mamy Music Corp out of Paoli, Pa. Later references show copyrights held by Gaylord Program Services, Inc. out of Nashville, TN, but this,
may be because Gaylord holds the copyrights for "Hee Haw." It appears that this song , with lyrics and arrangement by Ms. Heather, was originally composed as a . Bob Newman sang this
song on his album in . Mr. Newman is listed as a , so it is probable that this version was the first parody of the original Gospel song. Later artists performing comical versions of this song
included Archie Campbell on his album in , and Buck Owens on his album in . pseudonym [1] Phfft! you were gone Gospel tune "The Kentucky Colonel 1959 comedian "Have A Laugh On
Me" 1966 "Too Old To Cut The Mustard" 1972 A newsbreak-esque skit in which Charlie Fahrquarson () would deliver the somewhat local news in his own inimitable way. Harron would later
resurrect the character on .ORN news Don Harron The Red Green Show Lulu Roman owned this greasy spoon, where the food was usually pretty bad, Gailard Sartain was also in this skit
as the chef.Lulu's Truck Stop Cast members take on some of the classics, with some unexpected twists.Hee Haw Players Shakespeare A showcase of some of the worst talent of all. A
cast member would play some who would have some kind of bad talent, which would almost always end up with the audience it; throwing vegetables and the yanking said act forcibly off
the stage. After the skit, five animated cartoon animals (a duck, a sheep, a pig, a chicken and a goat) would appear onscreen booing, as well.Hee Haw Amateur Minute yokel booing hook
operator Gordie Tapp in a spoof of author giving off some homilies which undoubtedly made little if no sense whatsoever. After these recitations, he would most often be hit over the head
with a rubber chicken, or in later years be given a bomb or something that would eventually explode.Mr. Sternwheeler Mark Twain Marianne Gordon was the pampered daughter of her
Colonel Daddy (Gordie Tapp). She would sit on the swing at her plantation home, and would speak about the generosity of her Daddy.Colonel Daddy's daughter southern belle Shown most
frequently, were one or two of the male cast (playing a couple of lethargic hillbillies) who would lazily tell a joke while dozing on the floor near a bunch of moonshine jugs (with some of
the girls in the background).The Hillbillies There were always school scenes during the show's run. At first, it was with Jennifer Bishop and Lulu Roman as the put-upon teachers, with
most notably, Junior Samples and Roy Clark as the students. When Minnie Pearl joined the cast, they had a larger classroom scene with, at first, real children as the students, but would
later return to the cast members playing children, with Minnie still as the teacher.School Scenes The adventures of the Culhane family, depicted as all they did was sit on a old-fashioned
sofa in the parlor, which focused on Cousin Clem Culhane (Gordie Tapp); Cousin Junior Culhane (Junior Samples); Grandpa Culhane (Grandpa Jones); and Cousin Lulu Culhane (Lulu
Roman) who would sit in deadpan character and comment, a la soap opera.The Culhanes with Owens (on guitar) and Clark (on banjo) and the entire cast. , with the duo (and sometimes a
guest star sitting between Buck & Roy) dueling by playing guitar and banjo, telling jokes and reciting one-liners. The sketch always ended with Roy's banjo solo, each time ending a
different comical way. At first it was just Roy and Buck, and later on the entire cast joined in.Pickin' and Grinnin'( "I'm a-Pickin!" "And I'm a-Grinnin'!")Owens:Clark: , in which used car
salesman Junior Samples, with Misty Rowe as his later assistant, in his guise as a magician called Junior the Great, would try to pawn off a major clunker and then hold up a sign to
remind viewers that his phone number was "BR-549", It was changed to "BR-1Z12", in the show's later seasons. (At that time, local phone calls in virtually all of the US required dialing
seven-digit numbers.) ( tapes were later sold using the "800" number 1-800-BR54949; also, the country music group adopted the number as the name of their band.)Samples SalesHee
Haw BR5-49 , Another beloved sketch usually performed by four male cast members sitting around in hillbilly garb surrounded by jugs and looking overtly miserable. They song began
with the chorus, which all of them sang with each one alternating (in ) a mournful howl after each of the first three lines. The chorus went:"Gloom, Despair and Agony On Me" moonshine
lip-synch "Gloom, despair and agony on me-e! Deep dark depression, excessive misery-y! If it weren't for bad luck I'd have no luck at all! Gloom, despair and agony on me-e-e!" Each
of the quartet would sing one line of the verse- a different one for each performance.(In later seasons the female cast got their own version of the song, first just lip-synching the male
vocals, but later getting their own woman-ized version complete with female howls of mourning.) , featuring various female members of the cast surrounding a washtub and clothes
wringer singing:The Gossip Girls "Now, we're not ones to go round spreadin' rumors, Why, really we're just not the gossipy kind, No, you'll never hear one of us repeating gossip, So
you'd better be sure and listen close the first time!" The song featured a new verse every episode. In later years, the guys, in drag, would sometimes replace the girls in the skit, in
return for the girls singing "Gloom, Despair..." (In earlier seasons, the "Gossip Girls" and "Gloom, Despair." sketches would both end with a repeat of the song's chorus, but in later years
that practice was eliminated.) . Two or three times in each episode, Hee Haw would salute a selected town (or a guest star's hometown) and announce its population, which was
sometimes altered for , at which point the entire cast would then pop up' from the cornfield, shouting "SAA-LUTE!!"Hee Haw Salutes..." levity (sometimes after the salute, Archie
Campbell would pronounce the saluted town spelled backwards.) , Two or three times during each show a cast member, standing in front of a high wooden fence, would tell a . Example
After the punchline, a portion of the fence would swing up and hit the joke teller on the rear end-- regardless of their gender.The Fence one liner joke (: "I crossed an elephant with a
gopher." Everybody in unison: "What'ja get?" "Some awfully big holes in the backyard.") , with Archie Campbell, regular customer Roy Clark, and two or three other regulars sitting in the
"waiting chairs" . Campbell would share comic dialog with Clark or tell one of his "backwards fairy tales" such as "Rindercella".Archie's Barber Shop(on lesser occasions Junior Samples
would be the one going into the barber's chair)(Campbell's legendary "That's Good, That's Bad" routine immediately comes to mind) . Gordie operating a general merchandise store. It was
also a place where one of the cast would tell a comedic story.Gordie's General Store Roy Clark as the head desk clerk of one of the only accommodations in all of Kornfield Kounty, who
would pop up after the bell was rung.Empty Arms Hotel A musical segment, featuring most of the female cast members, singing a comical song, in which the punchline differed each
week. Regular "played" moonshine jugs (by which, she would blow air over the spout, creating a "humming sound"), which partially explains the segment's title (as well as the fact that
"jugs" is off-color euphemism for breasts). Minnie Pearl introduced the segment each week, loudly announcing, "We're gonna play now!"; at the end of the song, she would similarly
conclude "We're through playin now!""Hee-Haw's All-Jug Band" Lulu Roman is cleaning a window pane and recites a dinner menu in poetic verse. Often, he would describe a delicious,
country-style meal , and the audience would reply approvingly, "yum-m yum-m!"; although sometimes he would serve a less-than spectacular meal , to which the cast would reply,
"yuck!" One notable run-through of the routine had Grandpa saying "Ah ain't got nuthin!", which would be the only time he ever got booed during this routine."Hey Grandpa! What's for
supper?" Grandpa Jones (with no glass in it)(e.g., chicken and biscuits smothered in rich gravy, and collard greens)(thawed out ) TV dinners patterned after "Joke Wall," with cast
members and guest stars popping up' to tell jokes and one-liners. Until his death, "Stringbean played the field's 'scarecrow,' delivering one-liners before being shouted down by the crow
on his shoulder; after his 1973 murder, he was not replaced, and the scarecrow simply was seen in the field as a memorial. On occasion, personalities from TV stations that carried would
appear in this segment with Owens or Clark.The Cornfield,'s Laugh-In Hee Haw , with Gordie Tapp and Roni Stoneman as LaVern & Ida Lee, a backwoods bickering couple, inspired in part
by the radio comedy . made occasional appearances as their son Elrod; and Wendy Stults of the show's background singing group, The Nashville Edition, would sometimes play Ida Lee's
equally nagging mother.The Naggers The Bickersons Kenny Price (starting in 1974) Irlene Mandrell as Kornfield Kounty's telephone operator (similar to Lily Tomlin's more famous
character, Ernestine Tomlin) would answer phone calls from various Kornfield Kounty residents, who would eventually hang up in various degrees of frustration, causing the Operator to
often say, innocently, "And they wonder why we telephone operators turn gray!"Kornfield Kounty Operator Service When the craze was in full swing, Hee Haw had its honky tonk, where
all the cast would throw out their one liners. The Honky Tonk was replete with its ; and often showed Ida Lee Nagger (Roni Stoneman) chasing men with a net. This was patterned after the
Party onHee Haw Honky Tonk Honky Tonk mechanical bull . Laugh-In Slim would have his friends over at a barbecue at his home, where a musical guest would perform.Slim Picken's
Bar-B-Q : This was a jam-session segment, airing from 1980 through 1988, composed of the following all-star musicians: ,,,, , , , and .The Million Dollar Band Chet Atkins Boots
Randolph Roy Clark Floyd Cramer Charlie McCoy Danny Davis Jethro Burns Johnny Gimble : This was one of the few serious segments of the show, and always featured near the show's
end. Clark, Owens, Grandpa Jones and Kenny Price would sing a gospel hymn. Several of their performances were released as recordings.The Hee Haw Gospel Quartet : A little yellow
chicken who would always mistake anything and everything for an egg. The chicken would sit on items, such as a ringside bell; a man's bald head; a billiard ball; a football; a golf ball,
and even a bomb, with various disastrous results. The little chicken was produced by Format Films.The little Yellow Chicken: Interspersed within the show, besides the above mentioned
chicken, were various applauding or laughing farm animals; a kickline composed of pigs; a pack of dogs that would chase an extremely bad joke teller; three sultry pigs that twirled their
necklaces; a square dancing female pig and a male donkey; a pair of chickens dancing, with one of them falling on its face; the ubiquitous Hee Haw Donkey, who would say "Wouldn't that
dunk your hat in the creek?" among other quips; and a pig (from the kickline) that would sneak up on a musical guest (or a cast member, mostly Roy Clark) and kiss him on the cheek
among others. Sometimes, certain animals would carry appropriate signs with some kind of quip (ie: Hee Haw Donkey holding a sign that would say, "I'm looking for a "She-Haw!" or in
later years, "Let us Bray!"; a pig from the kickline holding a sign which would say, "oink!" or "Please DON'T Bring Home the Bacon!"; or a cow coming into the scene and opening a sign
that would say something like "Stop Beefing!" or "I married a Bum Steer"). The animation was produced by .Animated Critters Format Films At the end of the show hosts Clark and
Owens, backed by the entire cast, sang the song: "We loved the time we spent with you, To share a song and a laugh or two, May your pleasures be many, your troubles be few... And
ending with Owens and Clark saying "So long everybody! We'll see you next week on...HEE-HAW!!!"(The closing song would be replaced in the early-1980s) The closing song was changed
to this: "So long we sure had a good time! So long, gee, the company was fine! Singin and a dancin, Laughin' and a prancin', Adios, farewell, goodbye, good luck, so long...HEE HAW!!"
And after the closing credits, cast member would say, "THAT'S all!" (preceded from the mid-1980s to 1992 by "This has been a Gaylord Production from Opryland Studios!" Cathy Baker []
edit Musical legacy The show's additional legacy probably its main one to most of the and rural viewers in particular was the hundreds of performances of country music, , , and other
traditional styles, that were featured on it during its run. During the 1970s and early 1980s, this show was probably the best-known showcase for popular country music on commercial
television, aside from other half-hour performer-hosted syndicated shows (most notably , which is perhaps the only other weekly country music show of this era to approach s longevity.)
produced by packagers like Nashville's Show Biz, Inc. Southern bluegrass gospel music The Porter Wagoner Show Hee-Haw'