Milyanfan Kyrgyzstan Bricks are made in an open frame, 25 cm (10 inches) by 36 cm (14 inches) being a reasonable size, but any convenient size is acceptable. The mixture is molded by
the frame, and then the frame is removed quickly. After drying a few hours, the bricks are turned on edge to finish drying. Slow drying in shade reduces cracking. The same mixture to
make bricks, without the straw, is used for mortar and often for plaster on interior and exterior walls. Some ancient cultures used lime-based cement for the plaster to protect against rain
damage.[] citation needed The brick s thickness is preferred partially due to its thermal capabilities, and partially due to the stability of a thicker brick versus a more standard size brick.
Depending on the form that the mixture is pressed into, adobe can encompass nearly any shape or size, provided drying time is even and the mixture includes reinforcement for larger
bricks. Reinforcement can include manure, straw, , or wooden posts. Experience has shown that straw, cement, or manure added to a standard adobe mixture can all produce a strong
brick. A general testing is done on the soil content first. To do so, a sample of the soil is mixed into a clear container with some water, creating an almost completely saturated liquid.
After the jar is sealed the container is shaken vigorously for at least one minute. It is then allowed to sit on a flat surface until the soil sediment has either collected on the bottom or
remained a blended liquid. If the sediment collects on the bottom, that indicates there is a high clay content and is good for adobe. If the mixture remains a liquid, then there is little clay
in the soil and using it would yield weak bricks. cement rebar The largest structure ever made from adobe (bricks) was the , which suffered serious damage (up to 80%) by an
earthquake on , . Other large adobe structures are the in , with 100 million signed bricks, the ciudellas of and , both in Peru. Bam Citadel December 26 2003 Huaca del Sol Peru Chan Chan
Tambo Colorado [] edit Thermal properties An adobe wall can serve as a significant heat reservoir. A south-facing (in the ) adobe wall may be left uninsulated to moderate heating and
cooling. Ideally, it should be thick enough to remain cool on the inside during the heat of the day but thin enough to transfer heat through the wall during the evening. The exterior of such
a wall can be covered with glass to increase heat collection. In a home, this is called a. Adobe has a relatively dense , and is most useful in tropical climates. In temperate climates it is
less effective to heat a structure this way due to heat leaching by the ground and walls. Northern Hemisphere passive solar Trombe wall thermal mass [] citation needed [] edit Adobe
wall construction The of : The world's largest structure, dating to at least 500 BC. citadel Arg- Bam adobe When building an adobe structure, the ground should be compressed because
the weight of adobe bricks is significantly greater than a frame house and may cause cracking in the wall. The footing is dug and compressed once again. Footing depth depends on the
region and its ground frost level. The footing and stem wall are commonly 24 and 14", much larger than a frame house because of the weight of the walls. Adobe bricks are laid by
course. Each is laid the whole length of the wall, overlapping at the corners on a layer of adobe mortar. Adobe walls usually never rise above 2 stories because they're load bearing and
have low structural strength. When placing window and door openings, a is placed on top of the opening to support the bricks above. Within the last courses of brick, bond beams are laid
across the top of the bricks to provide a horizontal bearing plate for the roof to distribute the weight more evenly along the wall. To protect the interior and exterior adobe wall, finishes
can be applied, such as mud plaster, whitewash or stucco. These finishes protect the adobe wall from water damage, but need to be reapplied periodically, or the walls can be finished
with other nontraditional plasters providing longer protection. course lintel [] edit Adobe roof The traditional adobe roof has been generally constructed using a mixture of soil/clay,
water, sand, and other available organic materials. The mixture was then formed and pressed into wood forms producing rows of dried, earth bricks that would then be laid across a
support structure of wood and plastered into place with more adobe. For a deeper understanding of adobe, one might examine a cob building. , a close cousin to adobe, contains
proportioned amounts of soil, clay, water, manure, and straw. This is blended, but not formed like adobe. Cob is spread and piled around a frame and allowed to air dry for several
months before habitation. Adobe, then, can be described as dried bricks of cob, stacked and mortared together with more adobe mixture to create a thick wall and/or roof. Cob [] edit
Roof materials Depending on the materials available, a roof can be assembled using lengths of wood or metal to create a frame work to begin layering adobe bricks. Depending on the
thickness of the adobe bricks, the frame work has been performed using a steel framing and a layering of a metal fencing or wiring over the framework to allow an even load as masses
of adobe are spread across the metal fencing like cob and allowed to air dry accordingly. This method was demonstrated with an adobe blend heavily impregnated with cement to allow
even drying and prevent major cracking. [] edit Traditional adobe roof More traditional adobe roofs were often flatter than the familiar steeped roof as the native climate yielded more
sun and heat than mass amounts of snow or rain that would find use in precipitous roofs. Moisture, however, is often foe to a composite of mud and organic matter, so the introduction of
cement is often more common to help ward off any undue water damage. It is at this turn that sense is required before the construction of any adobe is begun; be sure that the location
for such a structure is similar to the climate it naturally comes from (that is, a hot, arid climate.) Cool and moist climates would do well with moisture precautions planned out. [] edit
Raising a traditional adobe roof To raise a flattened adobe roof, beams of wood or metal should be assembled and span the extent of the building. The ends of the beams should then be
fixed to the tops of the walls using the builder s preferred choice of attachments. Taking into account the material the beams and walls are made from, choosing the attachments may
prove difficult. In combination to the bricks and adobe mortar that are laid across the beams creates an even load-bearing pressure that can last for many years depending on attrition
Once the beams are laid across the building, it is then time to begin the placing of adobe bricks to create the roof. An adobe roof is often laid with bricks slightly larger in width to ensure
a larger expanse is covered when placing the bricks onto the beams. This wider shape also provides the future homeowner with thermal protection enough to stabilize an even temperature
through out the year. Following each individual brick should be a layer of adobe mortar, recommended to be at least an inch thick to make certain there is ample strength between the
brick s edges and also to provide a relative moisture barrier during the seasons where the arid climate does produce rain.[] citation needed [] edit Attributes Adobe roofs can be
inherently fire-proof, an attribute well received when the fireplace is kept lit during the cold nights, depending on the materials used. This feature leads the homeowner and builders to
begin thinking about the installation of a chimney, a feat regarded as a necessity in any adobe building. The construction of the chimney can also greatly influence the construction of the
roof supports, creating an extra need for care in choosing the right materials. An adobe chimney can be made from simple adobe bricks and stacked in similar fashion as the surrounding
walls. Basically outline the location and perimeter of the hearth, minding the safety elements common to a fireplace, and begin to stack and mortar the walls with pre-made adobe bricks,
cut to size. [] edit Around the world Still in production today, 's Romania Danube Delta Mixing mud and straw in brick frames Community effort