Pomo Edward S. Curtis According to the book , "The name of the Indian tribe is mentioned in baptismal records of 1815 as , by Chamisso in 1816 as , and repeatedly in Mission records of
the following years."California Place NamesChucuines 0 SonomasSonomi [7] According to the Coast Miwok and the Pomo tribes that lived in the region, Sonoma translates "valley of the
moon" or "many moons". Their legends detail this as a land where the moon nestled, hence the names and the "Valley of the Moon." This translation was first recorded in an 1850 report
by General to the California Legislature. popularized it in his 1913 novel . Sonoma Valley [8] Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo [9] Jack London The Valley of the Moon In the native languages
there is also a constantly recurring ending , from , the earth; and , village; hence , "earth village." Other sources say Sonoma comes from the Patwin tribes west of the , and their word
for "nose". Per , "the name is doubtless derived from a Patwin word for nose, which Padre Arroyo (Vocabularies, p. 22) gives as (Suisun)."tso-nomatsonomatsonoma [10] Sacramento
River Wintu California Place Namessonom Bowman (CFQ 5:300-302 [1946]) theorized that Spaniards found an Indian chief with a prominent protuberance and applied the nickname of to
the village and the territory (cf. , AAE 29:354 [1932]). Beeler believes the name applied originally to a nose-shaped geographic feature (WF 13:268-72 [1954]).Chief Nose Alfred L. Kroeber
[7] ( edit Geography and environment Hood Mountain vineyards According to the , Sonoma County has a total area of 1,768 (4,580 km ). 1,576 sq mi (4,082 km ) is land, and 192 sq mi
(498 km ) (10.88%) is water. Adjacent counties are (to the south), Mendocino (to the north), Lake (northeast), Napa (to the east), and and (to the southeast). U.S. Census Bureau sq mi
Marin Solano Contra Costa The county lies in the of northwestern California. Its ranges include the and the , the southern peak of the latter being the prominent landform, . The highest
peak in the Mayacamas within the county is . It has uncommon occurrences of , dominated by . The highest peak of the Sonoma Mountains is itself, which boasts two significant public
access properties: and . North Coast Ranges Mayacamas Sonoma Mountains Sears Point Hood Mountain pygmy forest Mendocino Cypress Sonoma Mountain Jack London State Historic Park
Fairfield Osborn Preserve The county includes the City of Sonoma and the Sonoma Valley, in which the City of Sonoma is located. However, these are not synonymous. The City of
Sonoma is merely one of several incorporated cities in the county. The Sonoma Valley itself makes up only the southeastern portion of the county, which includes many other valleys and
geographic zones. Moreover, the Sonoma Valley itself includes not only the City of Sonoma, but a portion of the City of Santa Rosa and the unincorporated communities of Kenwood, Agua
Caliente, Boyes Hot Springs, and Fetters Hot Springs. Other regions of the county beyond the Sonoma Valley include, among others, the , the , the , the , and the . Petaluma Valley Santa
Rosa Plain Russian River Alexander Valley Dry Creek Valley Distinct habitat areas within the county include oak , , , , , oak and . The in the upper and watersheds in is a relatively
undisturbed ecosystem with considerable . These forested areas have been characterized as some of the best examples of such woodlands. An unusual characteristic of these forests is the
high content of undisturbed prehistoric , testifying to the absence of historic or other . woodland redwood forest northern coastal scrub grassland marshland savanna riparian woodland
California oak woodland Yulupa Creek Spring Creek Annadel State Park biodiversity [11] bunch grass understory grazing agriculture [] edit Climate Sonoma County, as is often the case
with coastal counties in California, has a great degree of climatic variation and numerous, often very different, microclimates. Key determining factors for local climate are proximity to
the ocean, elevation, and the presence and elevation of hills or mountains to the east and west. This is in large part due to the fact that, as throughout California, the prevailing weather
systems and wind come normally from the , blowing in from the west and southwest so that places closer to the ocean and on the windward side of higher elevations tend to receive more
rain from autumn through spring and more summer wind and fog. This itself is partly a result of the presence of high and low pressures in inland California, with persistent high summer
temperatures in the Central Valley, in particular, leading to low pressures, drawing in air moist air from the Pacific, cooling into damp cool breezes and fog over the cold coastal water.
Those places further inland and particularly in the lee of significant elevations tend to receive less rain and less, in some cases no, fog in the summer. [12] [13] Pacific Ocean The coast
itself is typically cool and moist throughout summer, often foggy, with fog generally blowing in during the late afternoon and evening until it clears in the later morning to be sunny, before
repeating. Coastal summer highs are typically in the mid to high 60s, warming to the low 70s further from the ocean. Certain inland areas, including the Petaluma area and the Santa
Rosa Plain, are also prone to this normal fog pattern in general. However, they tend to receive the fog later in the evening, the fog tends to be more short-lived, and mid-day
tempertatures are significantly higher than they are on the coast, typically in the low 80s F. This is particularly true for Petaluma, and , and, only slightly less so, Santa Rosa, , and. In
large part this results from lower elevations and the prominent in the hills between the ocean to the west and the Petaluma Valley and Santa Rosa Plain to the east. [13] Cotati Rohnert
Park Windsor Sebastopol Petaluma Gap Areas north of Santa Rosa and Windsor, with larger elevations to the west and further from the fog path, tend to receive less fog and less summer
marine influence. Healdsburg to the north of Windsor is less foggy and much warmer, with summer highs typically in the higher 80s to about 90 F (32 C). Sonoma and the Sonoma
Valley, east of Petaluma, are similar, with highs typically in the very high 80s F to 90 F (32 C). This is in part due to the presence of the Sonoma Mountains between Petaluma and
Sonoma. far to the north out of the Santa Rosa Plain, is significantly hotter than any other city in the county, with rare evening-morning fog and highs often in the 90s, reaching 100 much
more frequently than the other cities. Notably, however, the temperature differences among the different areas of the county are greatest for the highs during mid-day, with the diurnal
lows much more even throughout the entire county. The lows are closely tied to the evening-morning cooling marine influence, in addition to elevation, bringing similarly cool
temperatures to much of region. Cloverdale These weather patterns contribute to high diurnal temperature fluctuations in much of the county. In summer, daily lows and highs are
typically 30-40 degress F apart in land, with highs for Petaluma, Cotati, Rohnert Park, Santa Rosa, Windsor, and Sebastopol typically being in the very low 80s F and lows at or near 50 F
(10 C). Healdsburg and Sonoma, with similar lows, have even greater diurnal fluctuations due to their significantly warmer highs. On the other hand, the coast, with strong marine
influence, tends to have low diurnal temperature fluctuation, with summer highs much cooler than the inland towns, typically 65-75 F, yet lows in the high 40s to low 50s F, fairly
comparable to most inland towns. These microclimates are evident during the rainy seasons as well, with great variation in the amount of rainfall throughout the county. Generally, all of
Sonoma County receives a fair amount of rain, with much of the county receiving between about 25 inches, comparable to areas such as Sonoma and Petaluma, and roughly 30 inches
(760 mm) normal for Santa Rosa. However, certain areas, particularly in the north-west portion of the county around the Russian River, receive significantly more rainfall. The area, for
example, typically receives about 50 inches of rain a year, with annual rain occasionally going as high as 70 inches (1,800 mm). Nearby Cazadero typically receives about 72 inches of rain
a year, many times has reached over 100 inches (2,500 mm) a year, and sometimes over 120 inches (3,000 mm) of rain a year. The Cazadero region is the second wettest place in
California after . Guerneville Gasquet [14] Snow is exceedingly rare in Sonoma County except in the higher elevations on and around the , particularly , and in nearby Lake County
Mayacamas Mountains Mount Saint Helena Cobb Mountain [15] [] edit Ocean, bays, rivers and streams as viewed from the Jenner Cliffs looking south, showing the mouth of the Russian
River at the Pacific Ocean. Goat Rock Beach Sonoma County is bounded on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and has 76 miles (122 km) of coastline. The major coastal hydrographic
features are Bodega Bay, the mouth of the Russian River, and the mouth of the , at the border with Mendocino County. Gualala River Six of the county's nine cities, from Healdsburg south
through Santa Rosa to Rohnert Park and Cotati, are in the Santa Rosa Plain. The northern Plain drains to the Russian River, or a tributary; the southern Plain drains to the Russian River via
the . Laguna de Santa Rosa [] edit Russian River Much of central and northern Sonoma County is in the watershed of the Russian River and its tributaries. The river rises in the coastal
mountains of Mendocino County, north of the city of , and flows into , a major flood control reservoir. The Russian flows south from the lake through Mendocino to Sonoma County,
paralleled by Highway 101. It turns west at Healdsburg, receiving water from via , and empties into the Pacific Ocean at . Ukiah Lake Mendocino Lake Sonoma Dry Creek Jenner [] edit
Laguna de Santa Rosa The Laguna de Santa Rosa is the largest tributary of the Russian River. It is 14 miles (23 km) long, running north from Cotati to the Russian River near Forestville.
Its flood plain is more than 7,500 acres (30 km ). It drains a 254 square mile (658 km ) watershed, including most of the Santa Rosa Plain.[] citation needed The Laguna de Santa Rosa
Foundation says: [16] "The Laguna de Santa Rosa is Sonoma County's richest area of wildlife habitat, and the most biologically diverse region of Sonoma County (itself the second-most
biologically diverse county in California)... It is a unique ecological system covering more than 30,000 acres (120 km ) and comprised of a mosaic of creeks, open water, perennial
marshes, seasonal wetlands, riparian forests, oak woodlands and grasslands... As the receiving water of a watershed where most of the county's human population lives, it is a landscape
feature of critical importance to Sonoma County's water quality, flood control, and biodiversity." The Laguna's largest tributary is , which runs through Santa Rosa. Its major tributaries
are , Mark West Creek, , and . Santa Rosa Creek Brush Creek Matanzas Creek Spring Creek Piner Creek [] edit Other water bodies The boundary with Marin County runs from the mouth
of the Estero Americano at Bodega Bay, up Americano Creek, then overland to and down the Petaluma River to its mouth at the northwest corner of , which adjoins . The southern edge of
Sonoma County comprises the northern shore of San Pablo Bay between the Marin County border at the Petaluma River and the border with Solano County at . Sonoma County has no
incorporated communities directly on the shore of San Pablo Bay. At the present there is only a private marina with related facilities called near the mouth of the Petaluma River.
However, the Petaluma River which flows into San Pablo Bay, is navigable up to the city of Petaluma. San Antonio Creek San Pablo Bay San Francisco Bay Sonoma Creek Port Sonoma
The Petaluma River, , and Sonoma Creek enter the bay at the county's southernmost tip. The intertidal zone where they join the bay is the vast . Tolay Creek Napa Sonoma Marsh _, the
Petaluma River, Tolay Creek, and Sonoma Creek are the principal streams draining the southern portion of the county. The Sonoma Valley is drained by Sonoma Creek, whose major
tributaries are , , , Schell Creek and ; is tributary to Schell Creek. Americano Creek Yulupa Creek Graham Creek Calabazas Creek Carriger Creek Arroyo Seco Creek