Logout The story of Hamlet depicts the flaws of human nature vs. actions of man. Hamlet did not use his intellect to decipher what made people do the things they do. Shakespeare
was well known for his manipulation of people's thoughts and actions. When the story opens on the funeral of Prince Hamlet father, Hamlet. We have the first sight of how
confused Hamlet is by saying he has no sorrow of the death of his father. In reality, Hamlet does not wish for anyone to know how he is really feeling. Hamlet only wants to find peace
and equilibrium within himself. Most people after the death of a family member tries to deal with the death by meeting with other family members and consoling each. other. Here is
where Hamlet loses his balance mentally Hamlet's mother has married her brother-in-law and therefore is living in sin according to the era in which this play was wrote. This leaves
Hamlet with no family member to console with, thus he ends up having to deal with his fathers death in his own confused way. The next misunderstanding comes when the ghost
confronted the guard at the tower and they went and got the Prince, The majority of the penple in the world would have neither ran away from the ghosts or would have passed them off
as a delusion of grievous people. Hamlet instead of ni sb2iteving Nent tc find ot~t what it ~>as that the ~Ltards ns~d seen. Harriet on]; ~i shed to Lrdarstand t+ghy the ghost caine to
the quards instpad of him first c,nd i+ this ghost was a In endi y ~host or an evi 1 one tiarn] et a~ so pt)ndered on the questi on of, why the guards did not ... The Story Of Hamlet
Depicts The Flaws Of Human Nature Vs Actions Of Man Hamlet D Title The Story Of Hamlet Depicts The Flaws Of Human Nature Vs Actions Of Man Hamlet D # of Words # of Pages (250
words per page double spaced) 2.28 This is ONLY a preview of the article. If you would like to view the entire document, you must subscribe to Academic Library. Please register below
now! This price includes: Subscribe to Academic Library When you subscribe to the Academic Library, you get 24-hour access to the online database containing full-text articles written
by thousands of scholarly students. For only $8.95 per month, you receive unlimited monthly access to view and download all of our 40,000 articles available online. That is less than the
price of one textbook! 24-hours-a-day, 7 days a week unlimited access on any computer with Internet access Complete access to all 40,000 articles, essays, and research papers Ability
to view and download virtually unlimited number of documents Ability to browse through perfectly arranged catalog of articles Superior search and relevancy ranking techniques using
Google SiteSearch and our local search engine Instant access to the online database after registration You can pay by credit card, checking account. You get instant access after
registration: Your credit card will automatically be renewed for your convenience until you cancel.You will be billed $ 8.95 every 30 days (recurring billing) starting on the day you
subscribe. If you are already registered, please to login. click here | | | | || | | | Home Register Login FAQ Forgot Password Privacy Policy Disclaimer Close Account Contact Us Logout
Copyright 1998-2009 Academic Library. Academic Library is designed only to assist students and researchers in the preparation of their own work. Anybody who use our services are
responsible not only for writing their own papers, but also for citing Academic Library as a source when doing so. By accessing and using this page you agree to the . Disclaimer If you
wish to cancel your subscription to Academic Library, please . click here