Vehicle registration plates of the United States From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article . Please by adding . See the for details.may contain or original research unverified
claims improve the article references talk page (September 2007) In the , are issued by an of the state or territorial government, and in the case of the the city government. Some tribes
The issues plates only for its own vehicle fleet and for . Until the 1980s, diplomatic plates were issued by the state in which the consulate or embassy was located. United States license
plates [1] agency District of Columbia Native American also issue plates U.S. federal government vehicles owned by foreign diplomats The appearances of plates are frequently chosen to

contain symbols, colours, or slogans associated with the issuing . The term is frequently used in , although in some areas is informally used. The term stems from small stickers issued
periodically to indicate that the vehicle registration is current, rather than replacing the entire license plate each year. jurisdiction license plate statutes tagstag[] citation needed Contents
Main article: U.S. license plate designs and serial formats The appearances of plates are frequently chosen to contain symbols, colors, or slogans associated with the issuing . Formats for
license plate numbers, which are usually alphanumeric, are designed to provide enough unique numbers for all motor vehicles a jurisdiction expects to register. For example, the small
states and are able to use formats of 123456 and 123-456, respectively, while uses the seven-character format 148C234, and several other populous states and provinces use a
seven-character ABC-1234 or ABCD-123 formats. Other formats include those that utilize a or month of expiration is incorporated into the plate number. jurisdiction Delaware Rhode Island
California county coding system  Non-passenger vehicles tend to have their own special format and often have the vehicle type listed on the plate. In the , many states and provinces
distinguish their license plates through distinctive color schemes and logos, which annually. For example, the logo often associated with the state of has appeared on that state's license
plates continuously since 1936. Some early plates were produced in a shape approximating that of the state. United States historically have been changed cowboy Wyoming Tennessee
parallelogram license plates have frequently featured a green and white color scheme, while has preferred yellow and blue. Other states and provinces, such as , offer simpler schemes,
often with a white background and little decoration. Vermont Alaska California ,,, ,, , , and have placed the address of the state's official or tourism on their general issue plates, with to
follow suit in July 2008. Most plates in contain the phrase "" to highlight the District's lack of a voting representative in . Florida Georgia Indiana Maryland Michigan Nebraska Pennsylvania
West Virginia web site South Carolina [2] Washington, D.C. Taxation without representation Congress Typically, the registration number is embossed or, more rarely, impressed onto the
license plate. Other identifying information, such as the name of the issuing jurisdiction and the vehicle class, can be either surface-printed or embossed; Virginia, for example, does the
former for passenger cars and the latter for most non-passenger vehicles. However, it is increasingly common in the U.S. for the registration number to be surface-printed using digital
printing technology. , , , , , , and do so only for certain types of license plates, such as and special issues;,,,,,,,,,,+,, and the have switched to the so-called "flat plate" technology
for all their license plates. license plates have not been embossed for several decades. License plates originally were not embossed, but were merely flat plates in various forms, typically
rectangular. It was found by the 1930s that they could be easily forged, and subsequently plates were embossed as the equipment to do this was not easily available to criminals wishing
to create their own plates. Colorado Mississippi Missouri New York Ohio Oregon Texas vanity plates Alabama Arizona Indiana Iowa Minnesota Montana Nebraska Nevada South Carolina
South Dakota Tennessee Wyoming Washington District of Columbia Delaware In 1956, the U.S. states and Canadian provinces came to an agreement with the that fixed the size for all
their passenger vehicle plates at six inches in height by twelve inches in width, although these figures may vary slightly by jurisdiction. In , only has not adopted these standards
(Although the Northwest Territories and Nunavut plates are cut in the shape of a polar bear, their mounting holes are compatible with those of the rest of Canada and the U.S.)
Smaller-sized plates are used for and, in some jurisdictions, and certain types of trailers and construction equipment. Automobile Manufacturers Association North America Saint Pierre and
Miquelon motorcycles mopeds [] edit Showing current registration on plates Line for automobile license plates, , 1940 Los Angeles Department of Motor Vehicles Historically, many U.S.
and Canadian plates were replaced every year, although the most common practice in modern times is to send new validation stickers to vehicle owners every year or two, to indicate that
the vehicle registration is still valid. Tags that are not up to date quickly attract the attention of law enforcement, because registration "renewal" is a transaction that can usually be
undertaken only by the car's registered owner, once certain requirements have been met, and because registration fees are a source of government revenue. A delinquent registration tag
is often an indicator that the vehicle may be stolen, that the vehicle's owner has failed to comply with the applicable law regarding or , or that the vehicle's owner has unpaid traffic or
parking tickets. Even with the tags, most states previously required that all license plates be replaced every few years; that practice is being abandoned by many states because of the
expense of continually producing large numbers of plates. , for example, formerly mandated that all license plates be replaced every five years (except for apportioned trailers, which
were registered on an eight-year schedule), but has not done so since 1986. emission inspection insurance Maryland The sticker is usually placed on one corner of the plate, while the
month of the year in which the plate would expire is printed in an opposing corner. Some jurisdictions combine the year and month on one sticker. In others, the plates is a displayed from
the inside of the . The color of plate stickers and windshield decals often change annually, to allow for easier detection by police. validation decal windshield Most validation stickers are
either serialized (with the serial number recorded on the registration), or are printed by a special at the time of registration or renewal with the vehicle's license plate number on them to
discourage fraudulent sticker use, as the sticker will be valid only for the plate for which it was intended. In the , the license plate is validated with a windshield sticker that indicates the
expiration date, the license plate number, the year and make of vehicle, and part of the , thereby allowing easier detection of fraudulent use, as well as serving as a parking permit for
neighborhood residents. printer District of Columbia vehicle identification number , , and Washington, D.C. use windshield stickers exclusively, rather than plate stickers, for most vehicle
classes. switched to this method in September 2006. required the use of plate decals for a few years, beginning with November 2000 expirations, but has not required them on passenger
cars since , . New Jersey passenger vehicles do not display any registration information other than the license plate itself. New York Texas Connecticut New Jersey October 1 2004 issued
validation stickers for residents that were displayed in the lower left corner of cars' rear windows for a few years, ending in late 2003 with the last stickers issued bearing January 2005
expirations, due to problems with theft of stickers attached to the license plate. Pennsylvania Philadelphia In Hawaii, the case of vehicle registration dues are a heated debate between the
counties. Vehicles are purchased at a discount on compared to the neighboring islands where there is usually only one dealer per vehicle make. Because the outlying counties issue plates
starting with M (Maui County), K (Kauai), or H (Big Island of Hawaii), the source of the vehicle can be identified. O ahu [] edit Life cycle Under U.S. law, when a person moves to a new
state, he or she is required to establish residency in the new state, which includes registering the vehicle with that new state's government it will then issue 2 new plate or plates that must
be attached to the vehicle. One prominent exception is active duty military service members; under federal law, they do not change their legal residence when they move to a new posting
and are not obliged to re-register their vehicle with the state in which they are newly assigned. Undergraduate students attending college or university in a state other than their own are
also typically exempt from transferring their registration, while graduate students are typically not exempt. A few states consider all students to be residents for purposes of vehicle
registration. Accordingly, they must register and insure their vehicle in that state as well as obtain that state's driver's license. A few other states, such as , allow, although do not require,
out of state students to register their vehicles in state.[] citation needed [] citation needed New York [] citation needed When a vehicle is sold, the disposition of the license plates
depends on state law and varies by state. In some states, license plates are transferred with the vehicle to its new owner. In other states, the license plates remain with the seller, who
may, for a fee, transfer the license plates and any unused portion of the current registration to a new vehicle. Some states issue a new plate whenever the car is sold. The various states
have different schemes for reissuing license plates, a process known as "replating". In some jurisdictions, plates are issued on a permanent basis and are not replaced unless the owner
requests a new plate or that his or her existing plate be remade. These jurisdictions include California, Delaware, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, and Oregon. Other jurisdictions replate on a
rolling basis, replacing a particular motorist's plate when it reaches a certain age. Jurisdictions employing a rolling replate program include Arkansas (plates reissued every eight years),
Florida (six years), Idaho (seven years), Pennsylvania (ten years, but although a replate is mandated by law for 2009, has no plans to replate as of April 2008), Texas (seven years), and
Washington (seven years due to the five-year warranty on the reflective coating). Yet other jurisdictions may recall a particular series of plates for reissuance at regular or irregular
intervals. This is particularly common in jurisdictions in which only one license plate series or design is valid at any given time. Optional-issue plates may or may not follow the same rules
for replacement as standard-issue plates, depending on the jurisdiction. PennDOT [update] [] edit Mounting Many American states are now strictly enforcing laws that require vehicles to
display two license plates (on the rear and front of the vehicle). One possible benefit of front license plates is to increase the effectiveness of , which work only if a vehicle can be linked
back to its registered owner. Opponents of two license plates usually do not like front plates on certain sports cars and historic cars because of their visual obtrusiveness from the vehicle.
(For example, a reader wrote in to the magazine to point out that the looks like when so equipped.) They argue that they add cost to production, use resources (metal), create double the
amount of waste and do not give police any extra tool in recovering stolen vehicles. [3] red-light cameras Car and Driver Mazda RX-8 Bugs Bunny California is one of an increasing
number of states whose law requiring a front license plate on all vehicles is being petitioned. The petitions are traditionally the result of effort put forth by motorists and car auto
enthusiasts who prefer the clean, unobstructed viewing of the front fascia and grille of their vehicle and see little or no practicality in having a front plate on display. Some argue that the
presence of a front license plate means unnecessary damage when mounting hardware comes into contact with the bumper of another vehicle. Others argue about whether or not the U.S.
front plate interferes with the vehicle's cooling system when mounted in the traditional location (versus, for example, a slimmer European plate). Variations on placement include
displaying the front plate inside the vehicle between the dash board and front windshield, having both a state-issued and vanity plate insert on display, and having only a vanity plate insert
on display. Police officers frequently cite motorists whose vehicles do not comply with California Vehicle Code section 5200, giving the offender the opportunity to correct the offense. The
petition, originally drafted by William Shaw, argues that not having a front plate on display does not interfere with law enforcement and states, "in the 20 or more states that have
abolished the front license plate requirement, there is no evidence of a decline in public safety as a result of the plate removal." [4] In the U.S. states of ,,,,,,,,,, (most plates
issued prior to 1988 - see note below),,,,,,,,, and, license plates are only required on the rear of the vehicle. Some vanity and specialty plates in and are issued in pairs, but only
the rear plate is required to be displayed; the optional front plate is something of a bonus for paying an extra fee for the plate. Alabama Arizona Arkansas Delaware Florida Georgia
Indiana Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Massachusetts Michigan Mississippi New Mexico North Carolina Oklahoma Pennsylvania South Carolina Tennessee West Virginia Arizona Kansas is a
unique case for license plate mounting. Before the introduction of the current TM" base starting in 1986 for commercial vehicles and and 1988 for all other vehicles, the state issued only a
single green-on-white plate to be mounted on the rear bumper. With the current-issue base, two plates are issued, to be mounted on both the front and rear bumpers. Since all license
plates issued since 1978 are currently valid, most passenger vehicles registered in Massachusetts display two plates, and those with the older green-on-white plates only display one
Massachusetts Spirit of America vanity plates [] edit Temporary/transit registrations A temporary license plate on a motorcycle in North Carolina. When a person buys a vehicle from a
dealer, the dealer is typically authorized to issue a temporary registration to allow the buyer to drive the vehicle until the government agency in charge of vehicle registration processes
the registration forms. Similarly, when a person buys a vehicle outside his state or province of residence, he can usually obtain a "transit registration from the authorities of the state or
province where the purchase took place. This transit registration will allow the new owner to drive the vehicle and to properly register and obtain license plates for the vehicle from his
state or province of residence. The physical indicia of such temporary or transit registrations can take a variety of forms, such as: a cardboard or lightweight plastic license plate, to be
removed at the end of the temporary registration period; a standard metal license plate with temporary validation, in which case the government agency needs to issue only a validation
sticker rather than a license plate; or a form or decal to be applied to a window of the vehicle. [] edit Plates for various types of vehicles and groups In the United States, there are
several types of license plates that are issued to special passenger, non-passenger and non-private vehicles. Depending on the jurisdiction, such types may include: