> > Alexian Brothers Home Continuing Medical Education Continuing Medical Education at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network About Us Continuing Medical Education for the Alexian
Brothers Hospital Network is offered through the Continuing Medical Education Consortium, which is comprised of the four major Alexian Brothers facilities: Alexian Brothers Medical
Center Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital The Continuing Medical Education Consortium is fully accredited by the Illinois State Medical Society
and is one of the largest providers of Continuing Medical Education in Illinois. Continuing Medical Education is designed to assist physicians to enhance their knowledge, skills, and attitudes
with the ultimate goal of improving the quality of medical care and patient outcomes. Other licensed medical professionals are also welcome to attend these physician education activities
There is generally no charge for Alexian Brothers Continuing Medical Education activities, which fall into two basic categories: Regularly scheduled conferences, such as Tumor Boards and
Clinical Case Studies Conferences and symposia Regularly scheduled conferences are held on a weekly, monthly, or quarterly basis, generally at Alexian Brothers Medical Center and St.
Alexius Medical Center. Regularly scheduled conferences for Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital are held at Poplar Creek Country Club. Registration is not required for attendance
at Regularly scheduled conferences. For specific information on currently planned Regularly scheduled conferences, call either of the major Continuing Medical Education Offices at
847-981-3522 or 847-755-8345. Courses and symposia are offered in specific topic areas. Registration is required for these Continuing Medical Education activities, which range in duration
from two hours to a full day. Information on currently planned courses and symposia is available from either of the major Continuing Medical Education Offices. All Continuing Medical
Education activities are held in accordance with the Accreditation Standards for Continuing Medical Education Activities of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education and the

Illinois State Medical Society