Will invest nearly 500 billion conventional electricity infrastructure over 20 years to meet expected growth. Minimizing the cost of new electric infrastructure is key to strengthening the
U.S. economy. In spring 2000, technical lead at PNNL and I started thinking about how to develop energy systems in the early decades of the 21st century. Biotech in Pasco, WA
HealthService/plant product: PNNL and business technology assistancePNNL contribution: consumer products and recreation Society of mobility engineering () in Pasco, WA website for
disabled vehicles usersService/product: PNNL staff, support assistancePNNL contribution assessment of technology market: World PNNL staff, communications network equipment,
electronic assistancePNNL contribution technology, instrumentation and analysis tools -Providing local questions, Word gisting, and to search for tools on trend-tracking tools, such as
time / text data Summit and Boolean login. Read the information hidden in the document, just fast, but this suite user-related tools to find relations. -Pinnacle technology and patent
literature, marketing, business correspondence, Web data, accident or Is used for security reports, and message traffic, and discovery. Has been applied in many areas, including
information and analysis, strategic planning, and medical research. - Summit , text. document is intended to quickly create, to understand without reading all the documents to explore
the large collection of text and meaningful Drish Yavlokn for you provides an effective way. Methods allow the data to be produced environmental concerns and immediate public health
regarding specific contaminants, as well as the long-term risks of material degradation or potential releases of the substance to the environment. Better use of information on the volume,
physical, environmental behavior of radioactive and toxic materials resulting more informed Decisions on cleaning and communication of these decisions to the public concerned. Our
research areas including law, systems biology, systems biology and different oxidation and radiation in cells, improve our ability to, in cell, network biology, cell stress, biomarkers in
environmental problems. Disease and bio Refers to environmental pollutants, microbial film. Through our research, we "in the United States Department of energy", countries need to
address significant challenges, including the production of clean energy, carbon sequestration, clean and protect people from the dangers of the environment and improvement of the
environmental diagnosis of the disease. These systems are used to detect hidden explosives or weapons. The same basic technology is also allowed in the apparel industry in applications
for clothing customized to its customers. See our technology portfolio on the site to see if PNNL has basic technological needs. Our main strengths of science - energy, environmental
information, national and fundamental security technology - cause new IP address, so check back often to see what's new at PNNL. Our security border Mike Spradling,4 21st, 2004
Spradling Mike gave a demonstration on how to protect United States national priorities, how to create new technologies being developed in the national consular Laboratory (PNNL) help
tasks in the country a safer place to live. Technology, showing Mike Spradling acoustic test equipment-wave imager Mm. Acoustics testing devices are handheld technology, mobile use
ultrasound to locate and identify smuggled in a sealed container. Millimeter wave imager allows airport security "sees" the hidden weapons, including non-metallic threats, such as plastic
explosives. Spradling, submitted also stressed the training of customs and protection Border management of hazardous substances. Volpentest ST emergency response training, Education
Center (hammer) Project Director Mike Spradling at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory of the Ministry. His responsibilities include: supporting technological development and
protection, prevention, law enforcement products technology How to contact with Larry Smarr is the founding Director of the California Institute for telecommunications and information
technology and Harry E. Gruber Professor at the Jacobs School Department of computer science and engineering at UCSD. Smarr is principal investigator of on the NSF OptiPuter
LambdaGrid, draft Moore Foundation project marine microbial metagenomics camera and i co-PI on the NSF project GreenLight large research institutions instrumentation. As founding
Director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and the National Alliance of computational science, Smarr has driven important contributions to the development of the
national information infrastructure: Internet, Web, emerging network, Telepresence, and scientific visualization. Development of electronic technology and system overview bubble chart
Electronics covers developments in engineering needed to represent a range of functions and activities PNNL to provide equipment and systems span the device from the root of science.
Staff working in the application environment (ie, designed to provide solutions) client's most common I have been exposed to the needs and interests of the sensor in the future. At the
same time, the presence of integrated technology development team, to facilitate the transfer of information to the staff working in the appropriate detection mechanisms and devices
developed or improved. Designinteraction interaction and mechanisms that govern the operation of the basic phenomena and electrical circuits and systems: PNNL, material, staff unit in
the laboratory of process engineering, technical assistance, market analysis SupportPNNL contribution: r Keymaster Technologies, Inc. () anti-piracy Kennewick, WA site ControlService
technology protection and the quality of the brand or the product: AssistancePNNL post activity: Richland, WA Visual Editor consultants Web site () and the formation for the Monte Carlo N
particle or nuclear code IndustryService of product: PNNL staff, equipment rent ComputadoraContribucin ServicePNNL SBIR warning: Underfloor heating technology of Richland, WA
environmental protection and ecological solutions current correction () or a site environmental RemediationService: PNNL, equity partners, bar point in the process engineering laboratory
and applied, technology AssistancePNNL post: integrated environmental technologies, clean energy LLC (), Richland, WA website and processing of waste products on the basis of
systemsService and plasma: PNNL staff, technology, technician, PNNL AssistancePNNL post: ICT business system software and software services, which automates AdministrationService
ExpensePath / / Product: PNNL PNNL staff, technology, technology support: AssistancePNNL We mechanisms by which Gram-negative bacteria, reducing metal nanoparticles periplasm
exports are defined by the contaminant and the biogeochemical behavior of nanoparticles studied externalized. Biogeochemical radionuclides microbial reductive precipitation NABIR
control processes to develop the scientific basis for radioactive groundwater contaminant remediation targets to reduce the activity of the central dissimilatory metal basic understanding
of microorganisms. The project team's high-throughput Metal 5-organisms responsible for the decreased activity across proteomics to identify proteins using, inferences about the
differences and similarities between organisms of activities allows to be made. Metal Reductases and determining their relative abundance in a series of parallel proteomic identification of
microbes in situ reducing metal PNNL S & E staff have a wealth of know-how and experience of application area forming the team to promote technologies, and to ensure that the practical
implementation of development can meet the equipment and methods. For detailed information, see the compilation. The purpose of this site is to provide an effective method of PNNL
sensors and electronic functions to know. Our research and development focuses on the following: Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to anticipate, prevent, and terror by analysis of
prediktiv against the threat of the global expansion of nuclear energy and old weapons of mass destruction (WMD) materials recognized production, goods roots and the transfer of
weapons of mass destruction and respond quickly and effectively to events of Mass Effect. Our talented scientists and engineers are working on the identification and dissemination of
knowledge on terrorism and signatures, materials, systems and sensors to quantify and characterize the materials and technologies that can pick up on the analysis of acts of terrorism.
These electronic tools provide complex construction of simulation model, a useful tool at the same time provide a simplified estimate, more than. Simplified tools are usually based on the
efficiency at full load and full load running time, estimated taking into account the local climate and part-load and full-load efficiency. Assists decisions relating to the purchase or
replacement of air conditioning equipment and room air conditioner on the roof cost estimate estimated energy cost savings during the life cycle of a product in different levels of energy
efficiency. Other key features include the following: Zoom introduction of the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) to create a program of academic life science teacher scientist (Acts) in
the Pacific Northest National Laboratory (PNNL) was a three Academy teacher teachers in primary education. Goal of the academy was to improve scientific literacy of teachers deepen the
understanding of the nature of science. This project was made possible with Funds U.S. DOE Office of Science, Office of the employees to develop teachers and scientists. During the
three-year program, teachers developed lesson enhancements aligned with national standards of science education, Washington state crucial for learning studies to fill gaps in existing
La'am material. Example: "Jones" or "Jones, and" or "Jones, eg" date of inclusion in the keyword search, if you do not find what you are looking for, please contact us or call us at (509)
372-7430. electronic publications by Hanford technical library, you need at least 2 characters in all fields to search for the authentic type. Author of the best success, search author
surname followed by the initials of the author, punctuation as follows: "Jones", "Jones, ," Jones, eg "." The Ministry. Energy Read more. Gathered in another milestone on the construction
of the facility and Physical Sciences Research top representatives from PNNL topping, and site offices Northwest coast Pacific Ocean workers 50 facilities in the physical sciences, the
Pacific Northwest It is a building project PNNL laboratory capability exchange switching equipment National Laboratory I have approved a plan for the future of the campus. Magnified view,
the U.S. Department of Energy has approved the scope of the (CRL) plant project capabilities exchange region 300 of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory PNNL campus pave the way
for the entire construction. CRL contains the replacement facility to house functions and staff from 300 Area Hanford site. As part of the Hanford site cleanup of DOE, PNNL 300 There is 2
need to leave at the end of 2011 many of the area. Most recently, the approval of three new facilities Approach 3 funding DOE PNNL:, the complex federally funded; building of both
private sources. Computational Science Research Facility Biological Sciences and Physical Sciences Research Facility The aim was, technology, enables analysts, valuable time to do real
information exploration, by providing the load from the processing of data for analysis. Original research is the basis for the visualization of information application. The SPIRE (spatial
paradigm information search and exploration) program was one of the first software products for the UNIX platform. IN-SPIRE is for PCs with Windows operating system. More statistical
information, "network", Columbus, Ohio, Battelle Battelle executes within a particular laboratory system and other reasons or "national" lab Battelle Memorial Institute of Laboratory
Management responsibilities "of the United States Department of Energy contracts. Shares under the care technologies and communication networks across geographic and organizational
boundaries, collaborate And deploy the most advanced tools, techniques and equipment, to facilitate the exchange of information encourages of our Organization and the trading system
and enterprise technology. capabilities to fight Is beneficial to strategic orientation. in addition, the network provides various assets and overall knowledge of the technical supervision
program. It further science and Our collective ability to promote technology means enabling and supporting infrastructure. Department of Energy laboratories and its subsidiary companies,
which the program Guidance, research and development will contribute to the coordination of Group technology networking group includes the. 5 sites managed by Battelle: Battelle
Columbus (Columbus, Ohio) and Brock Marine national laboratories (OSIL, New York) and the national renewable energy Laboratory (Golden, Colorado), Oak Ridge National Laboratory and
laboratory (Oak Ridge, Tennessee United States America), and Pacific Pacific Northwest national laboratory staff (Richland, Washington). We are researchers at the entry level candidates
as well as student employment category (undergraduate/graduate internship), our graduate employment category (postdoctoral fellow, main post office, post graduate degree), Looking
for 4,200 staff and a scientific basis to researchers. to create the necessary technology and complex chemical, physical and biological systems to advance our basic understanding of new
devices and we Technologies, United States Department of energy, homeland security, the u.s. national nuclear security administration, other federal agencies, State and local
governments and industry sectors in Turn the findings. This is the experience of education that are recessed and science curriculum resources/learning with the United States. John day
fossils stay beds from the edge of the crater of Mount St. Helens, the lessons teacher leaders directly, PNNL scientists from Earth Sciences and environmental sciences, Janelle downs,
Shannon Godwin, Duan Horton, Steve Riedl and the articles under Subscription. Lesson: developed land and fossil fuels, the Kennewick school district, school district Sunnyside, a teacher
of Arts and Sciences, PNNL, Walla Walla school DistrictGeorgia BoatmanVicki BarromSusan Erika Michelle garrison -Nano Nanotechnology Nano-cerium Quartet die oxidation of ice
particles and ice crystal Nano-based Shang road, the rod of nano particles and formed according to the Nano line of important en miracle "project Facilities and titanium dioxide (titanium
dioxide, titanium dioxide) in various environmental media nano particles of quantitative (that is, water, haddivala and perch statement real real statement/ Taiwan-mass of the water by
the end) through the system monitor the fate and transport of the material flow. Explains how to organize and manage an effective program of air. This article also describes the
information program manager and the lessons learned and capture air pratiche.Best Gestione explains the scientific principles and tools related to pollution atmosferico.Scienza provides a
Visual perspective as possible air pollution sources and provides a tool for services indagine..nstallazione The Learning Center has other notable features for resource managers in the
air. This resource page provides information and tools, including checklists, tasks air application and printable forms, links to other sources of information, a list of the rules and a glossary
of related terms. Users can identify their strengths and weaknesses in different areas by performing tests in the beginning or highest level. The centre is very easy to use, ", said Kate
Baker, PNNL Co Manager." product it positively evaluated and used by the customer. / P> NO QUERY SPECIFIED. EXAMPLE REQUEST: GET? Q = HELLO & LANGPAIR = EN | IT to help
companies start, grow and reorganize the economic development focusing on the Pacific Northwest, Pacific Western National Research Institute. Support for technology companies and our
economic development (Edo) program shows the commitment of energy to improve the reputation of the laboratory participants Providing significant practical economy in Northwest local,
regional and national to diversify the economy, leading science and technology, deployment of real world applications for the organization's business results NO QUERY SPECIFIED.
EXAMPLE REQUEST: GET?Q=HELLO&LANGPAIR=EN|IT Contact community science and technology seminar series to understand the new found exciting your imagination of your own back
yard, let run wild through the world of science and technology! Pacific _ was launched to explore how science changed our world and citizens better understand community science and
technology seminar series Site sponsored by the National Institute of. To make science and technology solutions to produce quickly in many areas from the basic science of consumer
products at the molecular level, and living easier and more enjoyable. On the science and technology Progress on method of sharing information is easy to understand people. From the
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory most speakers and other people from around the country guest lecturers or even may. All lectures are free, everyone is welcome. University in the
Colombia Basin occur within nine months on three thematic events are held at the University in the Colombia basin. Engagement of PNNLS environmental management environmental
policy at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, we appreciate above all human life and strive to create a work environment that is work-related accidents and occupational diseases.
We appreciate the environmental and public and future generations protecting unacceptable risks due to their activity. We are committed to supporting this policy: assess, prevent and
manage the risks associated with our work. Conservation, to integrate principles of work avoidance and minimization of waste. In accordance with all legal and contractual obligations and
the additional requirements, the Directorate to implement that, to achieve operational excellence. Continuously improve our processes, systems, and ways to improve value of products,
which shipped, our employees, customers and communities. Identify and performance objectives, indicators and targets to track. Analysis of data to identify by strengthening and
performance improvement and implementation Improvement plans to the areas for improvement. Luminaire next generation equipment commercial lighting innovative provides an
overview of lighting fixtures that are required to meet the specification requirements quality and consistency of the illumination and high energy efficiency, control glare, lighting
maintenance and lumen I have to encourage manufacturers to develop. SSL background, the Department of Energy (DOE) We will manage the investment of the federal government to
realize the economic benefits of energy efficiency research and development progress, of technology, it is expected that, lighting services, and. DOE has developed a comprehensive
program to support SSL for the application, in the general lighting market commercialization and effective. Are included in this program,,,, recognize and reward excellence in the
application of this emerging technology. From local to global playing the complex interactions between human activities and their impact on the environment a central role in the energy,
environmental and economic security. With the new landscape of terrorist threats at home and abroad, with the need to maintain the important balance between our business and the
environment. We chart new environmental solutions every day. Environmental Engineering The Computational and Information Sciences Directorate develops and distributes leading
computing and scientific capacity to develop the next generation of discovery science, national security, energy and the environment. Computational and Information Sciences National
Security supports the U.S. government's efforts to protect our homeland, ensuring a fast and powerful military and combat proliferation. Our wide range of scientific and technical
expertise allows us to deliver powerful, practical solutions to our customers. National basic sciences Security Directorate fundamental research in the Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory, which serves as a cornerstone of new scientific knowledge and progress. PNNL has a number of product lines (business areas) that have been established to provide effective
performance projects with related attributes of application and technical basis. This specialization area development allows staff our product range: a) have a thorough knowledge of their
field of application, b) better understand customer needs, technical skills necessary to achieve desired solutions, and working methods should be effective and successful, and c) establish
the planning and control methods suitable to optimize the performance of the project in their area of interest. The implementation of the management function product line has provided
significant benefits to our customers by improving the ability to PNNL successfully meet their toughest problems, multidisciplinary with increased efficiency. It helps us to realize the
desire to be recognized as the laboratory providing reagents, quality science and technology solutions with exceptional value. Career in the graduate program non-proliferation
non-proliferation contacts (NPM) is a degree-programs full time for students who are interested in a career in the nuclear nonproliferation. The program is sponsored by the U.S.
Department of energy (DOE) national nuclear security (5 NNSA) Office of defence administration nuclear non-proliferation and managed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The
Office of the task of nuclear non-proliferation (DNN) of the armed forces to identify, prevent and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, while reducing the risk of nuclear
facilities. For this mission, the NPM fellows assigned to a particular Office of DNN. Works with select tutors and mentors, programs of fellows PGM with the hint of non-proliferation and
security research and developmentconducting of nuclear material, the material nuclear and radiological in potentially vulnerable sites in Russia and the quantities of nuclear and
radiological materialsreducing elsewheresecuring supports Liaison Office for social enterprises to economic development resources for technical impressive, PNNL for strengthening
scientific and technological work in three cities and economy. And Executive Director of the Center for technology Ligitamu Washington technology firms to find the door to the lab? Office
of economic development in the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, here to help you start, grow, or restore your business. We can help you to access technical experts, facilities and
other resources in the laboratory ... No cost to you. We've helped over 400 companies in our region and national level 100. goal: to expand the economic and technological sectors,
creating opportunities The work of high value. Since the first contact with Europeans occurred when you cross the region in 1805 and 1806 Lewis Clark expedition discourse-big change is
reversible, the grasslands of North America, was performed. On some records have been written and unfortunately it remained-by early researchers, survivors are certainly less traders
trap Virgin, its original state is. Source text Chapter 1 of the book, included in the links below "box-Willow: semi-arid ecosystem balance and change the" WH-Ricard, El Field of research:
process analysis algorithms are necessary for the implementation of the data to identify patterns and anomalies and provide the classification and labelling of the function. One of the most
important results is processed the stream to carry out this analysis. Run the analysis in real time must be able to analyze the data collected. The development of techniques for the
analysis in real-time data prior to registration, we can define the size of the data transfer and provide an interim solution accelerates the processes that require an immediate decision. In
addition, thanks to the assessment of the performance of these algorithms can which can dynamically adapted.in situ projects this ability to. support R &amp; D workflow for a particular
problem: mass spectrometry of the clique of powerful and intelligent piping data analysis tools: layers of correlation for research information and analysis of complex adaptive systems for
the connection of the machine for an analysis exploration thorough learning data in real time of decision Paper: dark matter can be a revolutionary Imirna! New design and find out! Nazj
scientific assessment panel report: top priority to support a dual decomposition recommend neutrino first step Beta program to study neutrinos at the least disruption of the double beta
Ihooiotia neutrinos has two or more degenerate neutrinos to detect the field mass (&gt; 100 million electron volts ). The first stage of the accumulated knowledge and technology , And
then use one neutrino discoveries counters with hierarchy ( &gt; 10-20,000,000 electron volts) to expand the use of a second outside! Neutrinos recommendation 1 APS activities Science
review: we recommend, is a top priority, sensitivity testing said the plan to double the nuclear Niotranowles disruption. The term was chosen to represent the vision of advanced electrical
system based on accumulated knowledge from these efforts GridWise. Fundamentally, Vision Foundation, the GridWise, the electrical system of the future "bits Because it is less
expensive than iron. Real-time information that leads to the electrical system in the information age for the assertion that can be information technology to revolutionize the electrical
system to have the other side of it U.S. business ", e business of variance State-of-the-art in the industry to minimize inventory and infrastructure efficiency of the market system and to
maximize the use of production reliability, efficiency, and enables the country to realize the benefits of the already achieved. With the help of information technology, distribution,
empowering consumers to participate in the creation of an integrated system yet energy market - the key to price stabilization. art contest awards a prescription. 2000:
mawenkelaimente, business project manager in Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Department of energy, the Federal Government funded a lifetime service award for technology
Transfer your work to the private sector. establishing more than 20 new Marvin program helped companies. Vice President of hammer efficiency Award 1999, micro-enterprise innovation
research support Man project electronic alert service, newspaper columns, "the development of local economic resources" excellent award, three city economic growth column from
pioneer to Apex West of 99 ', SBIR Of small enterprises innovation research in the development of Government plans electronic alert service, published 1998 annual awards excellent
project management and technology support A successful enterprise of the Association Center, through the company leave the session. Electronic sensors & systems & electronics
electronic circuits are commonly used to convert the sensor output signals to control useful for interpretation or data processing. Electronic routinely should bring many of our sensor and
measurement concepts in practical applications and system functional requirements of our customers. In many cases this can be built in PNNL ideas developed or measurement sensors.
However, it also includes the incorporation of commercial sensors and measuring instruments or subsystems in embedded systems to meet customer requirements. We also develop and
deliver specialized electronics designed to meet specific customer requirements. Staff (S &amp; E) provides scientific and technical development in order to meet a wide range of sensors,
measurement technology, electronic (including controls) and collection systems integration application. Activities are adapted to meet the needs of the customer/project and includes:
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory scientific research and analysis of measurement and analysis of data, method development, validation and application "They support volunteer
programs to prevent activities that meet the needs of local communities to exploit the interests of workers along the priority as a corporate citizen of battal's cellmate and team and battal
living and working community quality life positive impact" or contact ATL staff. ATL is peace in East Sea The examples are intended to serve as a basis for discussion of the needs of the
customer/project and how they can help the PNNL San & and skills in providing solutions. Continue to expand the coverage of the materials of the web site to include additional features
and examples of projects. If you don't find the specific capabilities of current web site materials, please visit our website in the future to examine materials or additions please contact us
to determine if our portfolio of capabilities includes skills and experiences pertinent to their needs. There is no doubt that the quests are revolutionaries who will transform almost
everything we do, how we live and work, and organizations around us.nanoscience and nanotechnology, we are pleased to participate in this important technical work . For our part, we
are on a journey to the rule of nanomaterials and nano-biology. We build superior capabilities of basic sciences. We realize that the intersection of physical, biological and information
sciences is where much of the scientific history of the XxI century will be written. This is where solutions to the most pressing problems will found.st Nanoscience and Nanotechnology is a
major focus of our laboratory. We intend to provide expertise in materials synthesis and characterization of wear on the possibilities of nanoscience and technology. Providing information
and expertise in new and emerging technologies, including chem-bio detection, analysis and forensics; radiological detection, information analytics, identification of explosives, and
complex consciousness. Regional Homeland Security Summit a giant step towards a regional partnership was taken on 28 May 2008, when key representatives from ten western states and
territories of Guam embraced the idea of developing a concept to partner with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) national laboratories - particularly the National Laboratory the Pacific
Northwest and Idaho National Laboratory. PNNL and INL should focus on the needs of those who help to identify technology needs and requirements, establish priorities and provide
independent technical support and training. Set 74% koagenomu prophecy based on the core of large-scale genomic arrangement of Proteome Research. Seems to be responsible for the
the core proteome bacteria the base function. Exceeds half of the protein used in the synthesis. Surprisingly, the seven core proteasome, because of the unknown protein group. Because
of the study required by the central core, the nature of the protein these proteins. Responsible for specific species of bacteria live off the difference on a single style protein histone core.
The talents of our integrated teams of interdisciplinary research give strength to our systems biology research. Our experienced biologists and Proteomicists microscopy study thousands of
proteins and other cellular elements that are governed by variations in their position, their activities and their State of change. Our Bioinformaticists and bioinformatics are (1) to work
with scientists in high-throughput tools bench in a computing infrastructure to integrate, (2) create models of mobile networks to infer the structure and function of cellular networks from
large amounts of high-throughput, heterogeneous data appropriately, and (3) Software for the visualization and interpretation of these data to develop flood assistance. The methods we
develop, integrate and interpret high-throughput quantitative data, is the basis for creating response predictive models and cellular functions. A strong technical infrastructure group PNNL
only tools and advanced technologies provide a solid technology infrastructure for our Systems Biology Research. $ 1140000 Property taxes and rental rights. Buy a $ 256 million total
Benninl purchase of goods and services goods and services. To get agreements with more than 60 technology companies new product development clients get access to the "Bennin|
development" of security staff and strategic partners and funding sources for money and special features. Attract success BenninI and its affiliated companies for the past three Setyans
community Returns the resource. S Benninl "to get the Web site of the Office of economic development Director and" award "of the International Council of international economic
development. "Economic development program 2006 Leadership Award for Entrepreneur of the triple cities program graduates Sam Volpentest Web site Benninl go [22.5 KB PDF] If you
have questions or comments, thanks, please. Ssl encryption technology is more and more appointments, continue to make progress, to encourage, recognize, leading lights, LED products,
commercial specification indicates market lighting designers, operators and users do not meet the requirements of the differences, in order to promote appropriate signal opportunities.
The U.S. Department of Energy (IESNA) and (IALD) this new competition to create a relationship with the partner. Collaboration with partners of the the Northern Engineering Association
of the United States, lighting designers compete participants Mayer LED lighting, lamps and lighting, including LED lighting manufacturers, equipment manufacturers and system
competition The 08 open International Association. Participants also gained a new awareness of the internal security that led National Laboratory of Science and Technology. Functions
more information anthrax symposium report available the workshop report for the disastrous Incident Recovery: Long-term recovery from an anthrax event Symposium is now available
The one-day symposium was to enhance regional response and restoration capabilities in a catastrophic event by understanding the challenges associated with that whole communities.
Impacts, including human, infrastructure and critical systems Report on NWRTC Show Online Resource Center provides additional air project manager-according to Marina Skumanich
PNNL project manager to do the right thing. It's tons of information right at their fingertips. In order to ensure compliance with the Federal Clean Air Act, air project manager ", as just as
well as the State of defence, military and local clean air regulations. In 1998, FORSCOM Of the developed air program first task manager to help effectively and to efficiently meet
regulatory requirements for staying up all night to new information, strategies and information, share it with training plans. Therefore, the air force project manager learning & Resource
Center was born. Truck Center, http://www.Seattle.Battelle.org/forscom/index.htm, and 5 main content is divided into: Information and context is the laws and regulations to provide a
comprehensive analysis of the Clean Air Act.Regulations Medici allows researchers and analysts to visually create and modify a pipeline for processing data.nkel. Medici is based on
proven standardized integration, workflow and provenance tekniker.Robust. Medici supports multiple languages, communication protocols, maskinvaruplattformar.Flexibla. Medici improves
performance by sending large data through hnvisning.ffektiv. Research Area: Software Architecture technological advances continue to increase the volume, speed and complexity of data
produced from modeling and simulation, high-throughput instruments and systems sensors. 2008 Excellence Awards economic development. The tap water has received an honorable
mention in the category of business excellence in the development of competences 2008 economic prize. The award was evaluated by a panel of experts in international economic
development consisting of members of the public and private sectors. Gary key technology program of economic development, the former outstanding course 2008-2009 Council
international assistance. Head of the Office of economic development of PNNL, Gary Spanner, was named distinguished former Radio-Canada 2008-2009 year for Columbia Basin College
Foundation. It enhances the ability of our engineering and technical so. I press the key to new devices and systems that advance the interests of these to create improved functionality and
new properties to detect and nanoscience. We are keen to progress by placing a revolutionary nanotechnology that works for the benefit of humanity. We we I believe the way of working
is very important. We are investigating a new approach to meet the needs of our customers more vahizok of these tools to develop fun. The World Wide Web, or a large document trends
apparent surprise of our research, the size of the document and the individual's relationship to help people identify a common theme in the collection of data that can contain a large
amount of information. Does the facility Research of the Ministry of energy, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, we provide a breakthrough in science and technology for national
defense, energy, health, environment and science. Embedded data analysis of the information age, in the mid - '90s of the 20th century. Lack of equipment in the past to deal with the
sheer volume and diversity of information to absorb more than analysts Had access to the data. All information material to form text information can not handle the different style. For
print quality, we suggest you order duplicate or below custodian) Brochure title:. Science and technology for the nation Description: Solving America's toughest problems research is our
business. A consistent focus on our missions are scientists and engineers in the U.S. Department of Energy's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Science and Technology. We conduct
basic and applied research that sets the boundaries of science and technology. We translate discoveries into new knowledge, tools and technologies in science, energy, the environment
and national security. For more than four decades, our experts have come together with government, industry and academia to address some of the most difficult problems of our country
The result: We are providing the science, technology and leadership that our customers need to succeed. Contacts Abstract in Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, scientific advances
happen every day. So does being a good neighbor. By cultivating relationships with our community to promote construction within the region, community and regional outreach staff
provides resources and programs to ensure that PNNL is an asset to the Northwest and the local community. Community organization and regional builds mutually beneficial relationships
and implements strategies to promote economic vitality, generate goodwill and support for the lab, the community and our regional neighbors. These relationships with key policy
makers and opinion leaders encourage laboratory reputation not only as a vital resource for science and technology, but also as a. Neighbor living on PNNL Also containing some
environmental clean technology catalyst process exhaust gas catalyst toxic pollution control car's most important even when turned off, reduce the global economy did not turn off the
impact from hktliti active field and her research and development (R D &), more recent engineering achievements, new and improved catalytic materials. And a moderate energy level,
fast response, reaction and hslktibioth Of working on a development process to achieve the conditions under the lower rate and generates the minimum desirable product response to
Virhoni science of waste byproducts. Therefore, bktliza United States Department of energy (DOE), long-term interest rates, National Institute of catalysis-r & d, through the Western
Pacific national laboratory continues to support. Decisions made by these development environments must be in all parts of the world, Otd website for more information, see Team page
on the registration link does not hesitate to e-mail. Browsing the website of the environmental technology company "Web Board", to solve the problems of the world can be found in many
ways on our team. Chmda Protect the environment. We have clients to cooperate with research institutes and scholars and dedicated work of direct . To solve complex environmental
problems and other national government agencies industry. Magazine readers through the eyes of some of the best and brightest young scientists from the large-scale biological
research contributions in key areas of interest to them Are designed to provide a chance to see. Genome Technology and more ... The new system ports to foreign ports worldwide
protection against WMD ATTRACTION, Soon, these systems have a new role Play - the dangerous goods being smuggled to the potential use of weapons of mass
destruction will explore. More ... PNNL researchers Supercomputing Conference DNA earn top honors Indexing is easier than ever, but the amount of data to be analyzed is deposited. Now
an award-winning computer program that can be made interactive and intuitive genome sequence analysis Containing massive amounts of data to help researchers find hidden
relationships shows. Circuits and devices: tools, embedded, and custom circuit of specific functional needs. PNNL project work signal processor, an analog antenna digital circuit, cognitive
control circuit wiring, communication devices and touch on a daily basis as a control system. Circuit breaker components: software & sensors, signal processing, shelving, Controls, control
systems and applications, data acquisition systems, communications systems, the user interface is a specific area of the system, instrumentation, laboratory, field, we have a remote
measurement system. Client application for other applications to meet the specific requirements of system development. Measurement and control system: These organizations need to
reduce environmental pollution, waste and resource management issues or researching to get a better understanding of the chemical, biological and physical processes that affect the
environment. They must comply with federal and state regulations and mandates to maintain or restore seats to certain agreed conditions behavioral activities to minimize the impact on
the environment, or conduct research to the scientific basis for policy and legal measures to protect the environment and human health, REM product provides value to our customers
through our ability to understand the problems that are based on our past commitment and experience, then mount an integrated team of experts to solve problems. We are able to get
customized tools and techniques to the problem of providing our customers with innovative and cost effective solutions to their problems. Department of energy, battal/Western
Washington University and national laboratory quiet Ocean Tri-State Airport nton cities. Major private sector property with large real estate investor group, Solaris, garlic clove, the energy
of the West, and Western Corporation, a company producing locally owned has either Sintering or casting. Owners of about 330 hectares of well-developed provincial research facilities, in
collaboration Basic infrastructure, housing and other resources-rich to live, work, play community was created to develop a master plan. Tri-Cities many unique features including
research district. Application process engineering laboratory (APEL) is a 90,000-square-foot high-technology business. New Bioproducts University of Washington State, engineering
sciences Laboratory (BSEL), PNNL scientist collaboratory r &amp; d engineering processes, production of bio-based product, especially bio-energy production processes are based with a
high value of adverse outcomes is dedicated to private and public laboratories Labs. PNNL research projects provides user convenience. Tri-Board of Directors member-15 district
research corresponding to community partners Alanya is run by a corporation 501 (c) (6) non-profit organization. Since in the region and our country participates in the PNNL economic
development. And this is the responsibility of the national chmabda for. To promote our program, offer, and business skills. Opportunities for history of science and technology, Tri
recognized innovative entrepreneurs, companies and a robust support resources. We anchor in 1943, since our technology community, the region's most powerful Hanford Site Continue to
thrive at the end of the clean-up is looking forward to after a long time. Regards the realm, national laboratory PNNL's activation of the vtbthna people and their development developing
diverse technology sectors, sustainable company. PNNLS specialized facilities allows our researchers to address a wide range of energy, environmental, health and national security
issues for various clients. Electricity Infrastructure Operations Center (EIOC) at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory brings together industry-leading, real-time grid data and
advanced computation into a fully capable control rooms. Shaped with input from utilities, technology providers, and researchers in the northwest, works on EIOC as a unique platform to
research, develop and deploy technologies to better manage and control grid. These innovations with the approaching term would be a "energy bridge" for advanced energy systems of
tomorrow, which will build upon renewable, nuclear and hydrogen energy base. Our contributions to focus on increasing the capacity of the energy in the United States and reduce the
country's dependence on imported oil. We will provide the science And technology leadership to enable the conversion economically and environmentally sustainable for the local
hydrocarbon gas, and liquid fuels, electricity and chemicals. Improve network reliability and accelerate the expansion of safe nuclear energy and increase the efficiency of productive
economic engine vehicles The buildings we have projects that focus on technological developments in areas such as gasification, carbon management, products biological network in
real-time monitoring, solid oxide fuel cells, hydrogen storage materials, environments radioactive license nuclear reactor, and lighting the next generation, and auto emissions Smart
Energy and buildings. And generally, Astd creates solutions scientific understanding and technology for the public and private sectors, which led to Capacity that is described on the Web
site, support control systems, micro-processor-based embedded systems, data acquisition systems, communication systems and fully integrated systems, measurement and process
control development. Electronics has announced the affiliation of more than 305 Pacific Northwest national laboratory staff network of sensors and electronics technology. Among them,
about 110 have chosen network as their primary contact (in other words, it can best represent their competencies and activities), while the other 195 PNNL staff announced the
technology network member agencies, as an important part of the range of their capacities and activities of the network. For more information contact the Office of commencement
exercises, 206-543-2592. English language programs http://Depts.Washington.edu/commence family UW summer individuals and families looking for boarding back Japanese university
students to host the weekend of summer 2002 program. Volunteers organize one or two Japanese students for a weekend. This is an excellent opportunity plan &gt; give your family a
good intercultural experience, learn about Japanese customs and beliefs learn some Japanese words and phrases do international friendship Proliferation National Nuclear Security
Administration (NNSA) to promote awareness of the career, and U.S. national laboratories and provide participants with specialized training Gain valuable practical experience in the
non-support NNSA in its mission to develop a talent pool that NNSA nonproliferation programs with the International Security and Assistance Can. This program is a perfect complement to
his academic career, because it connects invaluable Practical and Professional (from concept to implementation), the American experience in policy formation Hybrid computing
architectures to satisfy these needs, integrating traditional architecture with General use hardware accelerators (e.g., programmable ports networks graphics processors, IBM Cell
processor or vector or math coprocessors). It's specialized hardware accelerators to speed up the implementation of the major components of data-intensive applications that, for general
purpose computers, represent a bottleneck. To harness the power of hybrid architectures, PNNL is investing in the development of software tools and methodologies to address the diverse
nature of the hardware. Today, our team and others air, sea and air are protected from the threat of terrorist attacks, rated the vulnerability of critical infrastructure across the country.
We trained border enforcement officials around the world to prevent the smuggling of materials chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. Also, we are to accommodate Internet emergency
first responders are United States Embassy in every country where. And the Pacific Northwest-- To ensure trade North of the Dan this innovative I hope to share our way of borders for
people or protection of the 21 century, researchers have to defend homeland you and us. Terrorism, counterterriorism-9/11 after the threat, battle was a stark reality American Home:
anthrax and other biological weapons may confuse the Government kill them, available to the trade of the United States. Are threats is not a new one. Contacts PictureThis PictureThis
contains hundreds of images of innovative technologies developed by research performed - by the National Laboratory of the Pacific Northwest. You can download images in TIFF files.
High resolution images are available when possible. The use of images from PictureThis not claim any expressed or implied affiliation, or endorsement by, the Battelle Institute, Laboratory
Consular national or U.S. Department of Energy. PictureThis photo credit: "Courtesy of Consular National Laboratory," unless otherwise noted. Whether your organization requires you to
get written permission to use these images, please contact the press, media experts should contact with the Media Relations Office of PNNL. researchers lab Consular promote national
boundaries of scientific knowledge at their discoveries to translate innovative technologies. State-of-the-art facilities combined with creativity and innovation help scientists Consular and
solve engineering challenges in energy, environment, national security for clients of government and industry. This technology is licensed in the various fields. features high-performance
compression seal new discovery every day Pacific Northwest National technology and patent license, A lot of people are available in the laboratory of laboratory science and technology
development and deployment. the social and economic value of the functions of our technical protection Patents and software copyright has a wealth of history, United States of America
and foreign patents in our continuous development of 1465 PNNL. Integrated life profile and a team of all the staff, they're family, two weeks after the performance recognition program
in Shang market competitiveness, and multidimensional for compensation of higher performance for compensation, paid annual leave, including the consideration of alternative work
schedule may Recognize opportunities based on Chang, medical, vision insurance, dental insurance, the maximum five week, local cooperation partners joint ne calendar year holidays
holiday 10%, including floating 2 person sick individuals, family time, the temporary employee's clothes draw pension plans, taxation Of staff include flexible working hours by 401 (k)
plan, allows you to save part of the wages, See our homepage PNNL technology available, to receive and redirect the complaints and requests information about the actions, omissions and
irregularities that licensees and other partnership marketing for more information on our technology and patents for licensing available. The Ombudsman was used for the solution of
conflicts, when the relationship between Battelle and potential partner or licensee will be strained. The mediator is an impartial party who was to investigate the alleged irregularities and
take appropriate measures to facilitate debugging. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (Bennin!) for data intensive computing research and technology force through the development of
data to solve big challenges. Complex analytical applications Middleware platform for building highly advanced: basic piece "computing" is a valid argument (Medici) performance data
intensive. Usually these applications pipeline software components that include some analysis of the data obtained, and The next step in your findings on the pipeline pass. The three main
component that loosely Medici are associated with: Adaptive workflow apply formatting-sift_unity-reusable components on the default data Capture source and manage logical files.
Workflow approach and execution environment designed to model the Medici Medici applications components just by scientists defined workflows into any number of Can be coated is able
to. Today, web site TechBiz Economic Development Office (National Award) Honorable Mention, Communicator, from the International Economic Development Council (International Award)
marketing cam video, "Year 2004, APEL brochure category special purpose Honorable Mention 2005: Apply Process Engineering Laboratory ( "2004 Outstanding Publication Award 2003
Award of Excellence from) Apex National Award (" APEL), SBIR / STTR services, high-tech "e-Government and Information Technology Trailblazer Award 2003" alert Work in technology
put, the use of Technology "award distinction, award communicator Prize (National)" on: competition "technical publishing 2003-2003 Lifetime Achievement Award, Technical
Communication 2001 chapter Willamette Valley," Special Report technology putting to improve government through today Biz "excellence award for social, Communicator Award" work for
our economy fruit infrared tester Apply bad bounce, "Honorable Mention, Communicator Award (awarded in the article, the State Prize) northwest Science & Technology magazine (National
Award) While support is configured now like to run SPH code tools, visualization of very SPH control with large output. Provides a graphic SALSSA 9/8 2 version of prototype-based
activities. These activities can be linked together in arbitrary depth and complexity. Job you can run one or more workstations. Data management and information sources are totally
based on RDF. SALSSA Version 2] pages make some tests, and offers a simulation of the Idaho National Laboratory partners additional implementation. Customs border smuggling,
chemical, biological or ensure or prevent nuclear weapons. We The cross-cutting abilities should be on the market. Main advantage consolidates the Institute throughout the Pacific
Northwest, and our research project is the ability of us they put on the market. We take a systematic approach to resolve the problem combined with the possible areas that ability. We
focus on problems and solutions, System Come up with a problem with analysts, early detection and action or decision. We are committed to providing our customers quality service make
us more secure and reliable world, Vol. 3Current No. 4 issue: Volume 4, number 3 Note on November 17, 2008 climate change d. ed. could have dramatic consequences for the Northwest
of energy, agriculture, forestry, economic and ecological interests. Dedicated to 100 experts exclusively in atmospheric science and climate change, the national laboratory of the Pacific
Northwest (PNNL) a better understanding of this complex issue. If in the air, mountains and glaciers, in classrooms of computing, have committees of Congress speak or in conjunction
with the goal of the global science PNNL, valuable climate information decision makers for. Today the question of technology in the Pacific Northwest are some of the interesting work of
PNNL for helping decision makers and respond to climate change, to understand that. For more information, visit. www.PNL.gov / atmospheric Congress Doc Hastings, who has been a
strong supporter of replacement for laboratories, announced the action in a. Press release of DOE is now in the process of approval of the laboratory management plans and once the
design plans are approved, construction will commence. We hope to start the construction in three exercise facilities. PNNL remain also in four locations already occupied in the 300 area.
Laboratory of replacement external capacity At PNNL, you will find personal innovative technical challenges of the nation ... Find jobs and create a resume. Profile recurrent use our job
search agent to receive notifications via email of new job openings PNNL. College recruiting and internship opportunities for graduate students and post-doc, please visit our page.
University of recruitment for internships universities and other educational programs, read programs PNNL. Science and Engineering Education Working at PNNL learn about our
competitiveness. compensation and benefits View our online to learn more about the lab, our main research areas, our people and our facilities. tour video website contact: job information
is updated daily from the database PNNL HR Webmaster jobs at PNNL Windows cluster, the common theme of files together based software to reveal hidden within a collection of
connected. Laptop stopped information analyst and they spend more time finding irrelevant documents most relevant search of unity or less. notebook analyze text a wide range of to
stop files or to create for each document or theme file flag is set. Unity of the peoples of the same or related topics are two inches visualizations turret view representations of
document. Working at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory for the U.S. federal government largely focuses on basic and applied research to important issues, including protecting our
country, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and protect our country's natural resources. Of these projects, we gain tools and information: building blocks - need private industry to
improve the quality of American life while remain competitive in a technology driven world. What question do you need answered science? Is there a technology gap that could fill PNNL
for your organization? Take a moment to review our capabilities in light of your business. Discover a variety of ways you can partner with PNNL. Making our experience an extension of
their own R & D. You may have just what you need ... and be available for licensing. Or we may be only one step to find it ... with you. Extensible framework that will support the
creation and preparation of data, compute a variety of resources on the execution of workflows execution model, and model validation. Workflow executions and the resulting The recorded
data will be tracked. Visualization and analysis tools to enable parallel to existing equipment, including integrated into a variety of structures and workflows or later analysis Will be
accessible for use. We also have new ways to visualize data sets hybrid model to examine the plan. SALSSA data management and workflow environment we have created numerous
development version SALSSA date Software. These versions and test prototype project staff and are intended for use by development partners. Contractors who have established a great
reputation demonstrated the ability to share the vision for the client's project objectives, to provide them with exceptional quality, on time and within budget. These contractors have
recognized expertise in selected applications (eg, commercial, residential, bridges, etc.), special access required subcontractors, materials, and know rational management The delivery of
each new project called contracted.general contractors Department of Energy multiprogram national laboratory PNNL operates a wide range of basic and applied research that addresses
important national mission. Through its scientific and technical activities, try PNNL to strengthen the scientific basis for American innovation, preventing and combating terrorism and the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, increase the capacity of the United States energy and reduce dependence on imported oil and reduce the impact of energy production and use
on the environment. The PNNL research facilities is truly unique. Our team of 4.200 scientists, engineers and support staff are making use of nanotechnology in order to provide safe and
reliable energy sources, create new tools to observe chemical processes in living cells, and the development of miniaturised sensors for the detection of pathogens in food and the
environment. These are just a few examples of interesting projects in science and technology that keeps our staff at the forefront of new discoveries. Contact: media relations, (509) the
assets of the national laboratory for nine days "National Lab" immediately return to the Manhattan project and the years after the end of World War Il. In this day and age, "Atomic Energy
Commission" (the predecessor of energy of the United States) a national laboratory of the system To strengthen the existing infrastructure of the United States for academic and industrial
research. Today, the laboratory in nine programming many top scientists and engineers, as well as the latest laboratories and equipment in the world. A large percentage of Nobel Prize
winners, the award-winning 100 R&D have been implemented, or have completed the study The national laboratory of the United States. In a laboratory study, to. meet national energy,
defence, environment, health, medicine, manufacturing, advanced high-performance computing, materials and other needs in the region. National programs laboratories: Argonne
National Lab, Argun, IL "Earth changes" (STC) for science and technology, focused on the lesson of "change" earthquakes, landslides, and volcanic Earth's water unit for land and science, is
called perfect options system (software) topographical unity for. Is designed for teachers to develop lessons Take the opportunity to integrate the writing, reading and science. Was the
one with lesson participated in the programme of work. Revisions are made based on the reaction of the teacher. Lessons from "Earth changes" will help to understand how earthquakes,
landslides and volcanic eruptions students changing the surface of the Earth. These lessons suggest that we fit at the end of the unit. This technique is dynamic - new items, new
technologies become available and some are removed as licensing occurs - so we encourage you to check back often. We welcome you to contact the commercialization manager
responsible for a portfolio of technologies that appear on each side of technology. Or check out our list for a more general question about a particular technology. portfolio of industry
contacts available technology For more information about the exploration of the sea, PNNL, visit our, and homepage. Institute for laboratory ecosystem science studies coastal marine
safety are an integral part of research on the health of ecosystems. PNNL researchers specialised in predict in assessing the health of the ecosystem and the effects of contaminants on
ecosystems. We check the condition of the health of the ecosystem through the study of contaminants in groundwater, surface water, soil and unsaturated zone, air, vegetation, and
wildlife. We use the predictive models for assessing the effects of chemicals on the environment and the decision-making and regulatory requirements to facilitate. Hanford is bordered in
the East by the Columbia River and the steep, imposing white cliffs West of Ringold formation. Moreover, rising gently lead basaltic lava flows in the Palouse country of Eastern
Washington. Surveys in the Hanford site area of about 105 meters (345 feet) above sea level up to 1093 m (3586) on the crest of the rattlesnake hills. That part of the reserve ALE
exceeding approximately 366 (1200 meters) and most of the rest of the National Park was environment by flooding it with glacial lakes Missoula, Columbia, Spokane, and similar ice edge
zone, lakes and the related melting of glaciers (Brown 1970) covered. The late Pleistocene fauna indicates the presence of extensive pastures. Mammoth, bison, horses, deer and other
unidentified species were all (FRY 1969) present. GridWise program the DOE GridWise leaders visual GridWise Alliance "industrial" GridWise, DOE, and the Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory, as well as the advanced electrical network on behalf of a term of the 21st century, using the a GridWise range. Signed by the the DOE GridWise understanding the Ministry of
Electricity and energy (power distribution agreement with Office) and between March 25, 2004 GridWise reliability history Remarks. This challenge to extract valuable knowledge massive
data sets is made even more difficult by the different types of data sources and many different scales - not to mention the ultimate goal in near-real time. To analyze the problem, the
science and technology of the driver can be grouped into three main categories: managing the explosion of knowledge retrieval of data from large sets of data by reducing the data to
facilitate human understanding and response. The answer: an approach to intensive computer data PNNL DIC: combine R &amp; D in the hybrid hardware architectures, software,
adaptable architectures, and advanced analysis algorithms to provide to the end users actual capabilities that make it impossible to solve the problems. Users other than XEE programmer,
you can quickly and easily create useful information in a simple drag-and-drop interface for various processing solutions. Custom parser (for example, a dedicated application software
or PERL script), we recommend the development of in order to ensure accurate conversion of mission-critical data or highly complex. XEE is, Perl Scripts can be included as part of the
process. You can contract in this regard provide consulting or software development services. Detection/measurement of uneven materials/media attributes object (man-made or natural,
or large or small), or structure. Although this title may not be a common function names and implementation of this important, many of our clients confidential and Western Pacific
national laboratory, a significant number of workers engaged in activities These. To illustrate, consider how different the second macro category sensing mamdida property: measuring the
temperature of a few examples, can use a single sensor) physical measurement (batmospra was measured simultaneously on top of air temperature distribution on site test is a typical
measurement of macro cracks which may use a series of Temperature sensors or optical method using remote and Hewlett-Packard systemspoint pipe &amp; metal detecting detector
measuring makroskopiim features, using electromagnetic acoustic testing or data analysis methods and the professional voice Contact Energy Science & Technology Science & Technology
The Energy Directorate Dust at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory provides an integrated approach to the challenges of energy most critical of our nation - the application of skills and
competencies solutions for the supply side and the demand for the energy equation and the infrastructure that connects the two. ESTD website for more information, please visit and do
not hesitate to send an email to the staff contact list on its pages. Site Web Science & Technology Officer of Energy Starlight uses an XML-based information model that captures the most
common types of relationships that may exist between disparate information. The flexible model can accommodate the full range of the types of information expressed in XML - which is
almost any type of digital information. Starlight is specifically designed to handle the types of relationships that human beings humans need to understand in order to solve complex
problems, multi-faceted, genuine. Graphic representations allow underlying relationships be interpreted visually. Viewers can interactive move between multiple representations of same
information to find correlations that may extend types of multiple reports. For example, emails can be related to each other in a number of different ways: