NASA The of the Sun is considered to extend from the center to about 0.2 solar radii. It has a density of up to 150,000 kg/m (150 times the density of water on Earth) and a temperature
of close to 13,600,000 (by contrast, the surface of the Sun is around 5,800 kelvins). Recent analysis of mission data favors a faster rotation rate in the core than in the rest of the radiative
zone. Through most of the Sun's life, energy is produced by through a series of steps called the ; this process converts hydrogen into helium. The core is the only location in the Sun that
produces an appreciable amount of heat via fusion: the rest of the star is heated by energy that is transferred outward from the core. All of the energy produced by fusion in the core must
travel through many successive layers to the solar photosphere before it escapes into space as sunlight or of particles. core 3 kelvins SOHO [37] nuclear fusion p p (proton proton) chain
kinetic energy About 3.4 10 (hydrogen nuclei) are converted into helium nuclei every second (out of ~8.9 10 total amount of free protons in the Sun), releasing energy at the matter
energy conversion rate of 4.26 million metric tons per second, 383 (3.83 10 W) or 9.15 10 of per second. This actually corresponds to a surprisingly low rate of energy production in the
Sun's core about 0.3 W/m (watts per cubic meter). This is less power than generated by a candle. Power density is about 6 W/kg of matter. For comparison, the human body produces heat
at approximately the rate 1.2 W/kg, roughly a million times greater per unit mass. The use of plasma with similar parameters for energy production on Earth would be completely
impractical even a modest 1 GW fusion power plant would require about 170 billion metric ton of plasma occupying almost one cubic mile. Hence, terrestrial fusion reactors utilize far
higher plasma temperatures than those in Sun's interior.38 protons 56 yotta watts 2610 megatons TNT 3 The rate of nuclear fusion depends strongly on density and temperature, so the
fusion rate in the core is in a self-correcting equilibrium: a slightly higher rate of fusion would cause the core to heat up more and slightly against the of the outer layers, reducing the
fusion rate and correcting the ; and a slightly lower rate would cause the core to cool and shrink slightly, increasing the fusion rate and again reverting it to its present level. expand
weight perturbation The high-energy (gamma rays) released in reactions are absorbed in only a few millimeters of solar plasma and then re-emitted again in random direction (and at
slightly lower energy) so it takes a long time for radiation to reach the Sun's surface. Estimates of the "photon travel time" range between 10,000 and 170,000 years. photons fusion [38]
After a final trip through the convective outer layer to the transparent "surface" of the photosphere, the photons escape as . Each gamma ray in the Sun's core is converted into several
million visible light photons before escaping into space. are also released by the fusion reactions in the core, but unlike photons they rarely interact with matter, so almost all are able to
escape the Sun immediately. For many years measurements of the number of neutrinos produced in the Sun were by a factor of 3. This discrepancy was recently resolved through the
discovery of the effects of : the Sun in fact emits the number of neutrinos predicted by the theory, but neutrino detectors were missing 2/3 of them because the neutrinos had changed
visible light Neutrinos lower than theories predicted neutrino oscillation flavor [] citation needed Radiative zone From about 0.2 to about 0.7 solar radii, solar material is hot and dense
enough that is sufficient to transfer the intense heat of the core outward. In this zone there is no thermal ; while the material grows cooler as altitude increases, this is less than the value
of and hence cannot drive convection. Heat is transferred by of and emit , which travel a brief distance before being reabsorbed by other ions. In this way energy makes its way very
slowly (see above) outward. thermal radiation convection temperature gradient adiabatic lapse rate radiation ions hydrogen helium photons Between the radiative zone and the convection
zone is a transition layer called the . This is a region where the sharp regime change between the uniform rotation of the radiative zone and the differential rotation of the convection zone
results in a large shear a condition where successive vertical layers slide past one another. tachocline Convection zone In the Sun's outer layer (down to approximately 70% of the solar
radius), the solar plasma is not dense enough or hot enough to transfer the heat energy of the interior outward via radiation. As a result, thermal convection occurs as carry hot material
to the surface (photosphere) of the Sun. Once the material cools off at the surface, it plunges back downward to the base of the convection zone, to receive more heat from the top of the
radiative zone. is thought to occur at the base of the convection zone, carrying turbulent downflows into the outer layers of the radiative zone. thermal columns Convective overshoot The
thermal columns in the convection zone form an imprint on the surface of the Sun, in the form of the and . The turbulent convection of this outer part of the solar interior gives rise to a
"small-scale" dynamo that produces magnetic north and south poles all over the surface of the Sun. solar granulation supergranulation The Sun's thermal columns are and therefore tend
to be hexagonal prisms. B nard cells [] citation needed Photosphere The , or temperature, of the Sun (5777 K) is the temperature a black body of the same size must have to yield the
same total emissive power. effective temperature black body The visible surface of the Sun, the photosphere, is the layer below which the Sun becomes to visible light. Above the
photosphere visible sunlight is free to propagate into space, and its energy escapes the Sun entirely. The change in opacity is due to the decreasing amount of H ions, which absorb visible
light easily. Conversely, the visible light we see is produced as electrons react with atoms to produce H ions. The photosphere is actually tens to hundreds of kilometers thick, being
slightly less opaque than on Earth. Because the upper part of the photosphere is cooler than the lower part, an image of the Sun appears brighter in the center than on the edge or of the
solar disk, in a phenomenon known as . Sunlight has approximately a spectrum that indicates its temperature is about 6,000 , interspersed with atomic from the tenuous layers above the
photosphere. The photosphere has a particle density of about 10 m (this is about 1% of the particle density of at sea level). opaque - hydrogen - [39] [40] air limb limb darkening
black-body K absorption lines 233 Earth's atmosphere During early studies of the of the photosphere, some absorption lines were found that did not correspond to any then known on
Earth. In 1868, hypothesized that these absorption lines were because of a new element which he dubbed ", after the Greek Sun god . It was not until 25 years later that helium was
isolated on Earth. optical spectrum chemical elements Norman Lockyer helium Helios [41] Atmosphere Main articles: and Corona Coronal loop During a total , the solar can be seen with
the naked eye. solar eclipse corona The parts of the Sun above the photosphere are referred to collectively as the . They can be viewed with telescopes operating across the , from radio
through visible light to , and comprise five principal zones: the , the chromosphere, the , the , and the . The heliosphere, which may be considered the tenuous outer atmosphere of the
Sun, extends outward past the orbit of to the , where it forms a sharp boundary with the . The chromosphere, transition region, and corona are much hotter than the surface of the Sun.
The reason why has not been conclusively proven; evidence suggests that may have enough energy to heat the corona.solar atmosphere electromagnetic spectrum gamma rays
temperature minimum transition region corona heliosphere Pluto heliopause shock front interstellar medium Alfv n waves [42] The coolest layer of the Sun is a temperature minimum
region about 500 km above the photosphere, with a temperature of about 4,000 . This part of the Sun is cool enough to support simple molecules such as and water, which can be detected
by their absorption spectra. K carbon monoxide Above the temperature minimum layer is a thin layer about 2,500 km thick, dominated by a spectrum of emission and absorption lines. It
is called the from the Greek root , meaning color, because the chromosphere is visible as a colored flash at the beginning and end of . The temperature in the chromosphere increases
gradually with altitude, ranging up to around 100,000 K near the top. [43] chromospherechroma total eclipses of the Sun Taken by 's Solar Optical Telescope on January 12, 2007, this
image of the Sun reveals the filamentary nature of the plasma connecting regions of different magnetic polarity. Hinode Above the chromosphere is a in which the temperature rises
rapidly from around 100,000 to coronal temperatures closer to one million K. The increase is because of a as within the region becomes fully by the high temperatures. The transition
region does not occur at a well-defined altitude. Rather, it forms a kind of around chromospheric features such as and , and is in constant, chaotic motion. The transition region is not
easily visible from Earth's surface, but is readily observable from by instruments sensitive to the portion of the . transition region K phase transition helium ionized nimbus spicules
filaments space far ultraviolet spectrum The is the extended outer atmosphere of the Sun, which is much larger in volume than the Sun itself. The corona merges smoothly with the that
fills the and . The low corona, which is very near the surface of the Sun, has a particle density of 10 10 m. (Earth's atmosphere near sea level has a particle density of about 2 10 m.) The
temperature of the corona is several million kelvins. While no complete theory yet exists to account for the temperature of the corona, at least some of its heat is known to be from
corona solar wind Solar System heliosphere 14163253 magnetic reconnection The extends from approximately 20 solar radii (0.1 AU) to the outer fringes of the Solar System. Its inner
boundary is defined as the layer in which the flow of the becomes that is, where the flow becomes faster than the speed of Alfv n waves. Turbulence and dynamic forces outside this
boundary cannot affect the shape of the solar corona within, because the information can only travel at the speed of Alfv n waves. The solar wind travels outward continuously through the
heliosphere, forming the solar magnetic field into a shape, until it impacts the more than 50 AU from the Sun. In December 2004, the passed through a shock front that is thought to be
part of the heliopause. Both of the Voyager probes have recorded higher levels of energetic particles as they approach the boundary. heliosphere solar wind superalfv nic[] citation needed
spiral heliopause Voyager 1 probe [44] Chemical composition The Sun is composed primarily of the and ; they account for 74.9% and 23.8% of the mass of the Sun in the photosphere,
respectively. All heavier elements, called in astronomy, account for less than 2 percent of the mass. The most abundant metals are oxygen (roughly 1% of the Sun's mass), carbon
(0.3%), neon (0.2%), and iron (0.2%). chemical elements hydrogen helium [45] metals [46] The Sun inherited its chemical composition from the out of which it formed: the hydrogen and
helium in the Sun were produced by . The metals were produced by in generations of stars which completed their and returned their material to the interstellar medium prior to the
formation of the Sun. The chemical composition of the photosphere is normally considered representative of the composition of the primordial Solar System. However, since the Sun
formed, the helium and heavy elements have settled out of the photosphere. Therefore, the photosphere now contains slightly less helium and only 84% of the heavy elements than the
protostellar Sun did; the protostellar Sun was 71.1% hydrogen, 27.4% helium, and 1.5% metals. interstellar medium Big Bang nucleosynthesis stellar nucleosynthesis stellar evolution [47]
[48] [45] [49] In the inner portions of the Sun, nuclear fusion has modified the composition by converting hydrogen into helium, so the innermost portion of the Sun is now roughly 60%
helium, with the metal abundance unchanged. Because the interior of the Sun is radiative, not convective (see above), none of the fusion products from the core have risen to the
photosphere. Structure [50] The solar heavy-element abundances described above are typically measured both using of the Sun's photosphere and by measuring abundances in that have
never been heated to melting temperatures. These meteorites are thought to retain the composition of the protostellar Sun and thus not affected by settling of heavy elements. The two
methods generally agree well. spectroscopy meteorites [11] Singly-ionized iron group elements In 1970s, much research focused on the abundances of elements in the Sun. Although
significant research was done, the abundance determination of some iron group elements (eg and ) was still difficult at least as far as 1978 because of their hyperfine structures. iron
group [51] [52] cobalt manganese [51] The first largely complete set of of singly-ionised iron group elements were made available first in the 1960s, and improved oscillator strengths
were computed in 1976. In 1978 the abundances of elements of the iron group were derived. oscillator strengths [53] [54] singly-ionised [51] Solar and planetary mass fractionation
relationship Various authors have considered the existence of a mass relationship between the isotopic compositions of solar and planetary , for example correlations between isotopic
compositions of planetary and solar and . Nevertheless, the belief that the whole Sun has the same composition as the solar atmosphere was still widespread, at least until 1983.
fractionation noble gases [55] Ne Xe [56] [57] In 1983, it was claimed that it was the fractionation in the Sun itself that caused the fractionation relationship between the isotopic
compositions of planetary and solar wind implanted noble gases. [57] Solar cycles Sunspots and the sunspot cycle Measurements of solar cycle variation during the last 30 years When
observing the Sun with appropriate filtration, the most immediately visible features are usually its , which are well-defined surface areas that appear darker than their surroundings
because of lower temperatures. Sunspots are regions of intense magnetic activity where is inhibited by strong magnetic fields, reducing energy transport from the hot interior to the
surface. The magnetic field gives rise to strong heating in the corona, forming that are the source of intense and . The largest sunspots can be tens of thousands of kilometers across.
sunspots convection active regions solar flares coronal mass ejections blast filaments and bubbles of magnetic plasma into space as seen in this light picture taken by . Coronal mass
ejections ultra-violet SOHO The number of sunspots visible on the Sun is not constant, but varies over an 11-year cycle known as the . At a typical solar minimum, few sunspots are
visible, and occasionally none at all can be seen. Those that do appear are at high solar latitudes. As the sunspot cycle progresses, the number of sunspots increases and they move closer
to the equator of the Sun, a phenomenon described by . Sunspots usually exist as pairs with opposite magnetic polarity. The magnetic polarity of the leading sunspot alternates every solar
cycle, so that it will be a north magnetic pole in one solar cycle and a south magnetic pole in the next. solar cycle Sp rer's law History of the number of observed sunspots during the last
250 years, which shows the ~11-year solar cycle The solar cycle has a great influence on , and is a significant influence on the Earth's climate . Solar activity minima tend to be
correlated with colder temperatures, and longer than average solar cycles tend to be correlated with hotter temperatures. In the 17th century, the solar cycle appears to have stopped
entirely for several decades; very few sunspots were observed during this period. During this era, which is known as the or , Europe experienced very cold temperatures. Earlier extended
minima have been discovered through analysis of and also appear to have coincided with lower-than-average global temperatures. space weather since luminosity has a direct relationship
with magnetic activity Maunder minimum Little Ice Age [58] tree rings Possible long term cycle A recent theory claims that there are magnetic instabilities in the core of the Sun which
cause fluctuations with periods of either 41,000 or 100,000 years. These could provide a better explanation of the than the . ice ages Milankovitch cycles [59] [60] Theoretical problems
Solar neutrino problem For many years the number of solar detected on Earth was one third to one half of the number predicted by the . This anomalous result was termed the . Theories
proposed to resolve the problem either tried to reduce the temperature of the Sun's interior to explain the lower neutrino flux, or posited that electron neutrinos could that is, change into
undetectable and as they traveled between the Sun and the Earth. Several neutrino observatories were built in the 1980s to measure the solar neutrino flux as accurately as possible,
including the and . Results from these observatories eventually led to the discovery that neutrinos have a very small and do indeed oscillate. Moreover, in 2001 the Sudbury Neutrino
Observatory was able to detect all three types of neutrinos directly, and found that the Sun's neutrino emission rate agreed with the Standard Solar Model, although depending on the
neutrino energy as few as one-third of the neutrinos seen at Earth are of the electron type. This proportion agrees with that predicted by the (also known as the matter effect), which
describes neutrino oscillation in matter. Hence, the problem is now resolved. electron neutrinos standard solar model solar neutrino problem oscillate tau muon neutrinos [61] Sudbury
Neutrino Observatory Kamiokande rest mass [62] total Mikheyev-Smirnov-Wolfenstein effect [] citation needed Coronal heating problem Main article: Corona The optical surface of the
Sun (the ) is known to have a temperature of approximately 6,000 . Above it lies the solar corona at a temperature of 1,000,000 K. The high temperature of the corona shows that it is
heated by something other than direct heat from the photosphere. photosphere K conduction It is thought that the energy necessary to heat the corona is provided by turbulent motion in
the convection zone below the photosphere, and two main mechanisms have been proposed to explain coronal heating. The first is heating, in which sound, gravitational and
magnetohydrodynamic waves are produced by turbulence in the convection zone. These waves travel upward and dissipate in the corona, depositing their energy in the ambient gas in the
form of heat. The other is heating, in which magnetic energy is continuously built up by photospheric motion and released through in the form of large and myriad similar but smaller
events. wave magnetic magnetic reconnection solar flares [63] Currently, it is unclear whether waves are an efficient heating mechanism. All waves except have been found to dissipate
or refract before reaching the corona. In addition, Alfv n waves do not easily dissipate in the corona. Current research focus has therefore shifted towards flare heating mechanisms. One
possible candidate to explain coronal heating is continuous flaring at small scales, but this remains an open topic of investigation. alfv n waves [64] [65] Faint young Sun problem Main
article: Faint young Sun paradox Theoretical models of the Sun's development suggest that 3.8 to 2.5 billion years ago, during the , the Sun was only about 75% as bright as it is today
Such a weak star would not have been able to sustain liquid water on the Earth's surface, and thus life should not have been able to develop. However, the geological record demonstrates
that the Earth has remained at a fairly constant temperature throughout its history, and in fact that the young Earth was somewhat warmer than it is today. The consensus among
scientists is that the young Earth's atmosphere contained much larger quantities of (such as , and/or ) than are present today, which trapped enough heat to compensate for the lesser
amount of reaching the planet. Archean period greenhouse gases carbon dioxide methane ammonia solar energy [66] Magnetic field