Closure not only option, CEO says Scripps president disagrees with Post publisher's memo By , Rocky Mountain News John Rebchook Published December 6, 2008 at 12:05 a.m. Updated
December 6, 2008 at 7:40 p.m. Photo by George Kochaniec Jr. Rich Boehne, president and chief executive officer of the E.W. Scripps Co., and Mark Contreras, senior vice
president/newspapers of Scripps, tell Rocky staffers Thursday that the newspaper has been placed on the market. The CEO of the company that owns the takes exception to assertions by
Dean Singleton that the only plan on the table is to close Colorado's oldest operating newspaper.Rocky Singleton, CEO of MediaNews, which owns fired the salvo in a memo late Thursday
to staffers, claiming that at a Nov. 19 meeting he was notified owner E,W. Scripps Co. planned to close the "as soon as practical."The Denver Post,PostRockyRocky Scripps put the up for
sale Thursday, citing losses that could reach $15 million this year. Rich Boehne, Scripps CEO, said the company's 50 percent share of the cash flow from the joint operating agreement with
MediaNews "is no longer enough to support the , leaving us with no choice but to seek an exit."RockyRocky Boehne contends that could include trying to sell the : "As we told you
Thursday, it is not a foregone conclusion that the will be shut down. Why put everybody through this, if that was the only option2"RockyRocky That point was mirrored by Editor and
Publisher John Temple in radio interviews Friday.Rocky "I think it is reasonable for seasoned observers to ask tough questions about whether there will be a buyer," he said. "On the other
hand, I would tell you that, clearly, no one knows." Temple, who characterized the Scripps-MediaNews relationship as a tenuous marriage, predicted dramatic changes in the Denver
media over the next five years and said "nobody knows exactly what it's going to look like." Boehne also disagreed with another point in Singleton's memo that the has been a "drain" on
the . "can tell you flat out that is not true," Boehne said. "The paper and the (advertising) space are sold together. It is designed to be a 50-50 partnership."RockyPost Singleton,
however, said that the DNA sells the ads per page in blocks of 182 inches - 120 inches from the broadsheet and 62 inches from the tabloid . That means that the accounts for 66 percent of
the ad revenue and the 34 percent, he said.PostRockyPostRocky Singleton said Friday that he stands by the memo. "The letter is 100 percent accurate," Singleton said. "If anybody says it
is not, they are not being truthful." Boehne said he agrees with Singleton that "newspapers have seen losses reach levels that have not been seen before." Meanwhile, a Wall Street
analyst issued a report that said if Scripps isn't able to sell the and its 50 percent interest in the JOA, it likely will incur a one-time charge of $10 million to close the paper. Others have
indicated the cost at $14 million.Rocky Brian S. Shipman, managing director of New York-based investment bank Jefferies and Co., wrote in the report that because the JOA was losing
money, Scripps has little choice but to sell or close the .Rocky "Given the worsening advertising market, especially for local newspaper and broadcast TV operators, Scripps hand was
essentially forced." Shipman went on to say that prospective buyers are likely to be wary of the operating losses - estimated at $15 million for the this year. The newspaper agency also
owes $130 million for its refurbished printing plant.Rocky In another development, a Montana media company announced it wants to purchase theRocky. The White Wolf Media Group and
investment partners said they intend to prepare a bid by the mid-January deadline set by Scripps. "Six weeks to review and pull all our resources together is going to be very difficult,"
Shawn White Wolf, the group's owner, said. He said his company is not entirely familiar with the financial problems facing the nor is he sure other investors are prepared to join
him.Rocky Back to Top