Bamiyan Afghanistan is a landlocked and country in South-, with plains in the north and southwest. The highest point is , at 7,485 m (24,557 ft) above sea level. Large parts of the country
are dry, and fresh water supplies are limited. The is one of the driest regions in the world. Afghanistan has a continental climate with hot summers and cold winters. The country is
frequently subject to minor , mainly in the northeast of mountain areas. Some 125 villages were damaged and 4000 people killed by the May 30, 1998 earthquake. mountainous Central
Asia Nowshak endorheic Sistan Basin [23] earthquakes Hindu Kush At 249,984 sq mi (647,500 km ), Afghanistan is the worlds 41st-largest country (after ). Myanmar , and border
Afghanistan to the north, to the west, to the south and the to the east. Tajikistan Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Iran Pakistan People's Republic of China The country's natural resources include
, and in southeastern areas; precious and such as , and in the north-east; and potentially significant and reserves in the north. The country also has,,,,,,, and. However, these
significant mineral and energy resources remain largely untapped due to the effects of the Soviet invasion and the subsequent civil war. Plans are underway to begin extracting them in the
near future. gold silver copper zinc iron ore semi-precious stones lapis emerald azure petroleum natural gas uranium coal chromite talc barites sulfur lead salt [1] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28]
History Main article: History of Afghanistan Though the modern state of Afghanistan was founded or created in 1747 by , the land has an ancient history and various timelines of different
civilizations. Excavation of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree, the , the and others suggests that humans were living in what is now Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming
communities of the area were among the earliest in the world. Ahmad Shah Durrani [10] University of Pennsylvania Smithsonian Institution [29] [30] Afghanistan is a country at a unique
nexus point where numerous civilizations have interacted and often fought, and was an important site of early historical activity. Through the ages, the region has been home to various
people, among them the () tribes, such as the , , , etc. It also has been conquered by a host of people, including the and , , , and . In recent times, invasions from the , , and most
recently by the have taken place. On the other hand, native entities have invaded surrounding regions in , and to form empires of their own. Indo-European Aryan Indo-Iranian Kambojas
Bactrians Pashtuns Median Persian Empires Alexander the Great Turks Mongols British Soviets United States and their allies Iranian plateau Central Asia Indian subcontinent The region
that is now Afghanistan was for some of its history part of various Persian dynasties, such as the (559 330 BCE) Achaemenid dynasty of the Persian Empire In 2000 BC, -speaking are
thought to have been in the region of Afghanistan. It is unlikely that the themselves originated in Afghanistan although they did migrate from there south towards India and west towards ,
but they also migrated into Europe via north of the Caspian. These Aryans set up a nation which became known as . Original homelands of the have been proposed as Anatolia, Kurdistan,
Central Asia, Iran, or Northern India, with the directions of the historical migration varying accordingly. Later, during the rule of , and after, it was called Er nshahr (: - ) meaning
Dominion of the Aryans . Indo-European Aryans [31] Aryans Persia Airy nem V ejah Aryans [32] [33] Ashkanian Sasanian Persian rn ahr Greco-Bactrian Kingdom It has been speculated
that might have originated in what is now Afghanistan between 1800 to 800 BC, as lived and died in . Ancient , such as , may have been spoken in this region around the time of the rise of
Zoroastrianism. By the middle of the sixth century BC, the of the Persians overthrew the and incorporated Afghanistan (known as to the Greeks) within its boundaries. conquered
Afghanistan after 330 BCE. Following Alexander's brief occupation, the successor state of the controlled the area until 305 BCE, when they gave most of the area to the as part of an
alliance treaty. During Mauryan rule, became the dominant religion in the region. The Mauryans were overthrown by the in 185 BCE, leading to the reconquest of Afghanistan by the by 180
BCE. Much of Afghanistan soon broke away from the Greco-Bactrians and became part of the . The Indo-Greeks were defeated by the and expelled from most of Afghanistan by the end of
the 2nd century BCE. Zoroastrianism Zoroaster Balkh [34] [35] Eastern Iranian languages Avestan Persian Empire Achaemenid Median Empire Arachosia Alexander the Great Seleucid
Empire Mauryan Empire Buddhism Sunga Dynasty Hellenistic Greco-Bactrians Indo-Greek Kingdom Indo-Scythians : gold artifacts of the in from the , at the site of . Kings with dragons
Scythians Bactria 1st century BC Tillia tepe During the first century, the subjugated Afghanistan, but lost it to their vassals. In the mid to late 1st century AD the vast , centered in modern
Afghanistan, became great patrons of Buddhist culture. The Kushans were defeated by the in the third century. Although various rulers calling themselves (generally known as ) continued
to rule at least parts of the region, they were probably more or less subject to the Sassanids. The late Kushans were followed by the Huns who, in turn, were replaced by the short-lived
but powerful , as rulers of the region in the first half of the fifth century. The Hephthalites were defeated by the Sasanian king in AD 557, who re-established Sassanid power in Persia
However, the successors of Kushans and Hepthalites established a small dynasty in called or /, who were later defeated by the Muslim armies and finally conquered by Muslim Turkish
armies led by the . Parthian Empire Indo-Parthian Kushan Empire Sassanids Kushanshas Indo-Sassanids [36] Kidarite [37] Hephthalites [38] Khosrau I Kabulistan Kushano-Hephthalites
Kabul-Shahan Shahi Arab Ghaznavids Islamic and Mongol conquests of the region Main articles: and Islamic conquest of Afghanistan Mongol invasion of Central Asia In the , up to the
nineteenth century, Afghanistan was part of a larger region known as . Several important centers of Khor sn are thus located in modern Afghanistan, such as , , and . It was during this
period of time when was introduced and spread in the area. Middle Ages Greater Khorasan [39] [40] [41] Balkh Herat Ghazni Kabul Islam The region of Afghanistan became the center of
various important empires, including that of the (875 999), (977 1187), (1037 1194), (1149 1212), , (1225 1335), and (1370 1506). Among them, the periods of the Ghaznavids and
Timurids are considered as some of the most brilliant eras of the region's history. Samanids Ghaznavids Seljukids Ghurids Mongol Empire Iikhanate Timurids [42] [43] In 1219 the region
was overrun by the under , who devastated the land. Their rule continued with the [one of 4 Subordinate Mongolian Khanates], and was extended further following the of ( Tamerlane ), a
ruler from Central Asia. In 1504, , a descendant of both Timur Lang and Genghis Khan, established the with its capital at . By the early 1700s, Afghanistan was controlled by several ruling
groups: to the north, to the west and the remaining larger area by the Mughals or self-ruled by local tribes. Mongols Genghis Khan IIkhanate invasion Timur Lang Babur Mughal Empire
Kabul Uzbeks Safavids Hotaki dynasty Main article: Hotaki dynasty In 1709, , a local Afghan () from the clan, overthrew and killed , the Safavid governor of . Mir Wais successfully
defeated the Persians, who were attempting to convert the local population of Kandahar from to the sect of . Mir Wais held the region of Kandahar until his death in 1715 and was
succeeded by his son . In 1722, Mir Mahmud led an Afghan army to (), sacked the city and proclaimed himself . However, the great majority still rejected the Afghan regime as usurping,
and after the massacre of thousands of civilians in Isfahan by the Afghans including more than three thousand religious scholars, nobles, and members of the Safavid family the was
eventually removed from power by a new ruler, of Persia. Mir Wais Hotak Pashtun Ghilzai Gurgin Khan Kandahar Sunni Shia Islam Mir Mahmud Hotaki Isfahan Iran King of Persia Hotaki
dynasty Nadir Shah [44] [45] Durrani Empire: beginnings of the Afghan state Main article: Durrani Empire Durrani Empire at its greatest extent In 1738 Nadir Shah and his army, which
included four thousand Pashtuns of the clan, conquered the region of Kandahar; in the same year he occupied Ghazni, Kabul and . On June 19, 1747, Nadir Shah was assassinated, possibly
planned by his nephew . In the same year, one of Nadir's military commanders and personal bodyguard, , a Pashtun from the Abdali clan, called for a following Nadir's death. The Afghans
gathered at and chose Ahmad Shah as their King. Since then, he is often regarded as the founder of modern Afghanistan. After the inauguration, he changed his title or clans' name to ,
which derives from the Persian word , meaning . Abdali [46] Lahore Ali Qoli Ahmad Shah Abdali loya jirga Kandahar [1] [47] [48] DurraniDurrPearl [46] By 1751 Ahmad Shah Durrani and
his Afghan army conquered the entire present-day Afghanistan, Pakistan, Khorasan and Kohistan provinces of Iran, along with in India. In October 1772, Ahmad Shah retired to his home in
, Kandahar, where he died peacefully. He was succeeded by his son, , who transferred the capital from Kandahar to Kabul. Timur died in 1793 and was finally succeeded by his son . Delhi
[20] Maruf Timur Shah Durrani Zaman Shah Durrani European influence and the creation of the state of Afghanistan