Grand Canyon There is some disagreement over the proper of the name "Arizona." Some scholars believe the name is simply an abbreviation of the Spanish phrase , dry region",
although the phrasing is atypical for Spanish. Others reject this derivation as capricious favoring explanations such as the phrase , "good oak," or the phrase , "small spring. The Basque
etymology is the one preferred by Arizona state historian Marshall Trimble, among other specialists. The name was initially applied to the silver mining camp, and later (shortened to ) to
the entire territory. etymology arida zona Basque aritz ona [12] [13] O'odham al onak [14] ArizonacArizona_, a Spanish , explored the area in 1539 and met its original inhabitants,
probably the . The expedition of Spanish explorer entered the area in 1540 42 during its search for . developed a chain of missions and taught the Indians in (now southern Arizona and
northern ) in the 1690s and early 1700s. Spain founded (fortified towns) at Tubac in 1752 and Tucson in 1775. When Mexico achieved its independence from in 1821, what is now Arizona
became part of the Mexican Territory , also known as . In the (1847), the U.S. occupied Mexico City and forced the newly founded Mexican Republic to give up its northern territories,
including what later became Arizona. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (1848) specified that the sum of $15 million US dollars in compensation (an extraordinarily large sum at the time)
be paid to the newly formed Republic of Mexico. The purchase of the area formerly ruled by Spain, then briefly Mexico, almost bankrupted the United States. As a result, the land was
offered back to the Mexican Republic. In 1853 the land below the was acquired from Mexico in the . Arizona was administered as part of the until southern New Mexico seceded from the
Union as the on March 16, 1861. Arizona was recognized as a Confederate Territory by presidential proclamation of on February 12, 1862. This is the first official use of the name. A new ,
consisting of the western half of New Mexico Territory was declared in Washington, D.C. on February 24, 1863. The new boundaries would later form the basis of the state. Marcos de Niza
Franciscan native Sobaipuri Coronado C bola Society of Jesus Father Kino Christianity Pimer a Alta Sonora presidios Spain Nueva California Alta California [15] Mexican American War [16]
Gila River Gadsden Purchase Territory of New Mexico [17] Confederate Territory of Arizona Jefferson Davis Arizona Territory Other names including "Gadsonia", "Pimeria", "Montezuma",
"arizuma", and "Arizonia" had been considered for the territory, however when signed the final bill, it read "Arizona", and the name became permanent. ( was not the Mexican Emperor,
but the sacred name of a divine hero to the of the valley, and was probably considered and rejected for its sentimental value before the name "Arizona" was settled upon.) [18] President
Lincoln Montezuma Pueblo people Gila sent to Arizona in the mid-to-late 19th century. They founded , , , and other towns. They also settled in the (or "Valley of the Sun"), , , among other
areas. The Mormons settled what became known as and northern New Mexico, but these areas were located in a part of the former . The largest ancestry of these settlers is . Brigham
Young Mormons Mesa Snowflake Heber Safford Phoenix Valley Tempe Prescott Northern Arizona New Mexico Territory German During the Spanish/American war of 1898, Americans from
mostly New Mexico and Arizona, as well as some other Southwestern States, became soldiers in Colonel Roosevelt's Rough Riders. Arizonans fought primarily in the Cuban Campaign, the
largest and deadliest phase of the war, alongside Teddy Roosevelt, a future American President. Other famous people to fight along side the Arizona Volunteer Cavalry was Tom Horn, a
notorious gunslinger who was involved in a number of Arizona wars, the Apache Wars and the Pleasant Valley Range War. Both conflicts were prior to Horn's enlistment during the Spanish
War.[] citation needed [] citation needed During the Mexican Revolution from 1910-1920, a few battles were fought in the Mexican towns just across the border from Arizona border
settlements. The Battle of Ambos Nogales in 1918, other than Pancho Villa's 1916 Columbus Raid in New Mexico, was the only significant engagement on US soil between United States and
Mexican forces. The battle resulted in an American victory. After US soldiers were fired on by Mexican Federal troops, the American garrison then launched an assault into Nogales, Mexico
in which the enemy eventually surrendered after both sides sustained heavy casualties. A year earlier, just outside of Nogales, Arizona. An Indian War battle occurred, thus being the last
engagement in the American Indian Wars which lasted from 1775 to 1917. The participants in the fight were US soldiers stationed on the border and Yaqui Indians who decided to travel
one last war path.-[] citation needed Arizona became a U.S. state on February 14, 1912. The major result being the end to the territorial colonization of Continental America. Arizona was
the 48th state admitted into the U.S. and the last of the to be admitted. The admission, originally scheduled to coincide with that of New Mexico, was delayed by Democrats in the
territorial legislature to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Arizona becoming a territory in 1862. contiguous states Confederate [19] A sunset in the Arizona desert near . The climate
and imagery are two factors behind Arizona's tourism industry. Scottsdale Cotton farming and copper mining, two of Arizona's most important statewide industries, suffered heavily
during the , but it was during the 1920s and 1930s that began to be the important Arizona industry it is today. Dude ranches such as the K L Bar and Remuda in Wickenburg, along with the
Flying V and Tanque Verde in Tucson, gave tourists the chance to experience the flavor and life of the "old West." Several upscale hotels and resorts opened during this period, some of
which are still top tourist draws to this day; they include the in central Phoenix (opened 1929) and the on the west side of the Phoenix area (opened 1936). Great Depression tourism
Arizona Biltmore Hotel Wigwam Resort Arizona was the site of German and Italian camps during and US-resident internment camps. The camps were abolished after World War II. The
Phoenix area site was purchased after the war by the family (of major home fame), and is currently utilized as the . A camp was located on , just outside of the state's southeastern city of
Tucson. Another was located near the in eastern . Because of 's proximity to Japan, a line was drawn somewhat parallel to the California border, and all Japanese residents west of that
line were required to reside in the war camps. Grand Avenue, a major thoroughfare in the Phoenix area and part of , (perhaps because it mirrored the California border) was chosen as
part of that boundary. This resulted in many extended Japanese families becoming separated; some were interned, some free--and some free families, in an odd bid for family unity,
requested to be interned in order to be with their families at a camp built by the original Co., a modern manufacturer of large housing developments. POW World War II Japanese Maytag
appliance Phoenix Zoo Japanese American internment Mount Lemmon POW camp Gila River Yuma County California U.S. 60 Del Webb Arizona was also home to the , one of several
federal institutions designed to assimilate native children into mainstream culture. Children were often enrolled into these schools against the wishes of their parents and families.
Attempts to suppress native identities included forcing the children to cut their hair and take on western names. Phoenix Indian School [20] Arizona's population grew tremendously after
World War II, in part because of the development of , which made the intense summers more comfortable. According to the (published by the 's office each year), the state population in
1910 was 294,353. By 1970, it was 1,752,122. The percentage growth each decade averaged about 20% in the earlier decades and about 60% each decade thereafter. air conditioning
Arizona Blue Book Secretary of State The 1960s saw the establishment of , special age-restricted subdivisions catering exclusively to the needs of senior citizens who wanted to escape
the harsh winters of the and the . , established by developer and opened in 1960, was one of the first such communities. , south of Tucson, was another such community and was designed
to be a retirement subdivision for Arizona's teachers. (Many senior citizens arrive in Arizona each winter and stay only during the winter months; they are referred to as .) retirement
communities Midwest Northeast Sun City Del Webb Green Valley snowbirds Three ships named have been christened in honor of the state, although only was so named after statehood
was achieved. USS Arizona USS Arizona (BB-39)