1 | | Hi, You can of course just submit answers for the Grognards Challenge, which is running as ever. | | | HOME PAGE UPDATES HEADER FOOTER New links/files on Web-Grognards,
7/9/97 To celebrate the return of Web-Grognards after the summer break, has kindly agreed to sponsor a special , by offering a free copy of the forthcoming to the first person who
answers the following questions: 4CDs Strategy and Wargame Shop 4CDs Challenge Close Combat 2 The following quote comes from the manual of a classic computer wargame:- "The
scenario starts with the Germans ready to launch another 48th Panzer Korps counter-attack. Both sides have received substantial replacements and reinforcements. The map indicates the
at-start Korps/Army locations and their historic axis of advance. What is the name of the game, what company produced it and who designed it? What are the title and publisher of the
current game? This you have to recognise from scans of two map sections and two sets of units on the homepage. Grognard Challenge Web-Grognards Rules of the 4CDs Challenge Only
one entry is allowed per entrant. Subsequent entries submitted by any entrant will be ineligible. All entries must be sent to grognard@grognard.com All entries received will be given a
entry number. This be quoted to obtain any prize.must The closing date of the current competition is Saturday 13th September, 18:00 GMT. All entries must be dated prior to this. The
winner (if any) will be notified by email after the closing date. Decisions of the competition organisers are final. Staff of 4CDs and Web-Grognards are ineligible to enter. Richard Fluck
has sent me alll the translations he had assembled for issue games. I have stored them on Web-Grognards as they have been much requested. Vae Victis Finally, I am have not had the
time to add all the material which was sent over August/early September. If you do not see something (a URL, a review etc) you submitted in the Update below it is in my backlog and will
be added asap :-( The Previous Grognards Challenge: Allan Rothberg was the 'St. Lo' (West End Games). This is Allan's seventh win and puts him only one behind the biggest winner so
far, Randy Moorehead, who has eight wins. A new Challenge awaits! first of a few to guess A list of new links and files on Web-Grognards follows. NEW LINKS/RESOURCES link to web
site for (PBEM game) 1618 something links to Windows and Mac demos of (Big Time Software, computer game, Windows/Mac) Achtung Spitfire! link to technical FAQ for (Interactive
Magic, computer game) American Civil War: From Sumter to Appomatox link to web page for (Microgame Co-op) Arriba Espana! link to web page for (Microgame Co-op) Astromachia
link to web page for PBEM game of (GDW) Battle for Moscow