[] edit Plot summary is a to the original science fiction film Unlike the other movies in the trilogy, and , the story is set from the perspectives of both those trapped in the Cube and of the
people monitoring them. It is revealed that the company behind the Cube, Izon, uses subjects who have supposedly volunteered for the project. The Cube itself is a giant structure
consisting of many rooms (shaped like smaller cubes) within, It is 25 rooms wide, high, and deep. Some of the rooms have various traps, including sharp wires, flames, blades, and
chemicals. The characters test each room for traps by a method known as "booting," which involves throwing a boot into a trapped room in an attempt to activate any traps.Cube Zero
prequel . Cube Cube Hypercube The film focuses on the genius Cube technician, Eric Wynn, and Cassandra Rains, a woman placed in the Cube in whom he finds himself interested. The
film starts with a man, Ryjkin, trapped in the cube trying to navigate his way out. After a while he reaches a cube where nozzles come out of the wallls to spray a liquid on to him. He
confirms by the smell and taste that it is only water and finds some relief in his tension; however, when he rubs the back of his palm he realizes that his body is disintegrating,

Presumably the liquid contains , , or fast-acting fat-eating . His body quickly melts into a bloody mess, and he dies. flesh-eating bacteria acid enzymes Eric Wynn, a cube technician feels
disgusted watching this sitting in an observation room with his (higher ranking) co-worker Dodd. Afterwards we see Eric Wynn simultaneously sketching a portrait of Dodd (in the form of a
called Chessman) and conversing and with Dodd, who has a chess board in front of him. After Eric wins the game easily, he keeps asking Dodd questions about their missing colleagues,
but Dodd suggests, increasingly insistently, that he not ask too many questions or get too involved with the present occupants of the cube. superhero playing chess in his mind They get
an order from "upstairs" which asks them to record the dream of a subject, who is presently in. The subject is Cassandra Rains. In her dream, Wynn sees how she was captured while
walking in a pleasant forest with her daughter Anna. REM Rains meets the other occupants of the cube who share her plight, three more males and one female. One of the males has a
tattoo on his forehead like the soldier that captured her. However, the soldier, like everyone else, has no recollection of his former life. According to what Wynn knows, everyone in the
cube was facing a death sentence once upon a time, and was presented a choice: either to be in the cube with memory wiped out, or to go ahead with the sentence. Only if a person signs
the consent form is he or she then placed in the cube. Wynn finds out that Rains has no consent form and argues with Dodd that they should inform the people "upstairs" because this could
be a mistrial. Just when he is about to make a call to the superiors, the phone rings. They are instructed to perform the "exit procedure" for a subject who has reached the end through
the cube and is about to meet his final challenge. They find that it is none other than Owen, one of their missing colleagues. In the process of the exit procedure, when asked if he believes
in God, he answers no. The answer results in his immediate . incineration Wynn argues with Dodd over the fate of Owen. After realizing that working in the Cube is inhumane, he decides
to enter the cube to save Rains, and help her party to the exit. One of the cube's supervisors (called Jax) and two analysts who report to him come to Wynn & Dodd's work stations to
handle the situation created by Wynn's decision to help Rains. Despite their efforts to stop them, Wynn and Rains make it to the exit room with the help of Dodd (after he finds Wynn's
portrait of himself and feels sorry for Wynn's plight), who sabotages the connection to the control panels servicing the cube, and subsequently pays with his life when Jax catches him red
handed.The sabotage causes the cube to go into "reset mode", which means that the cube will align to its starting position and a "clean sweep" will commence, which will vaporize any
living tissue still remaining inside the cube after a limited period of time. Once they reach an "exit room" (a cube room through which the outside world may be accessed), they manage
to use a secret auxiliary exit just before the clean sweep, and after swimming through water for some distance they reach land and try to escape. However, soldiers searching for them
have already arrived (these are referred to as "Squad" in the movie, identified by a tattoo on their forehead that resembles the Izon logo). Rains manages to escape, but Wynn is shot by a
dart that halts his progress. Wynn wakes up, probably hours later, in a surgery room with a surgeon. He confronts Jax, who reveals Rains may have gotten away, but Wynn had been
found guilty of "high treason and "sabotage" against "[his] country and [his] God." He has been sentenced to "two lifetimes" and that he will be TM for the sentence. Before surgery on his
brain begins, Wynn questions his trial, it is then revealed that he, and presumably Dodd, had been convicted, had their memories erased, and been put in the cube as observers, or "rats
watching the rats", as Jax shows him his consent form. He then dreams about Rains reuniting with her daughter and praising Wynn as "a superhero." modified Immediately afterwards,
Wynn is placed back into the cube with other "lab rats" and appears to be mentally handicapped. In the last scene, Wynn is shown to act out a scene from in role, possibly indicating that
Kazan was also once a technician or that Kazan is really Wynn. The basis for that assumption is that Wynn's right hand constantly twitches and in the original Kazan has the exact same
twitch and the various implants and procedures (or effects thereof) performed on him before his placement in the cube may be altering his perception of reality. This could also explain
Kazan's uncanny ability to perform very large mathematical calculations mentally, although this may also be to a possible conclusion that Kazan is an . Cube Kazan's Cube autistic savant
[edit Traps The traps in are more similar to the mechanical, plausible traps in the original rather than the more traps from . Some traps from the original also make return
appearances.Cube ZeroCube sci-fi HypercubeCube The swinging dicer from the original film makes a brief reappearance, as does the retracting spike room and flamethrowers. Nozzles
come out of the walls that spray the victim with a clear liquid that looks like water, but is actually a highly corrosive substance. At first the victim seems fine, but after a short while, their
body starts to dissolve and deteriorate, leaving nothing but the blackened bones. Ryjkin is killed by this trap. Relatively similar to the liquid trap (above) and flamethrowers, a new trap
showers the victim in , freezing them and causing them to smash upon the floor. liquid nitrogen Needles built into the floor of the cube induce a rapid form of when stepped on or
otherwise touched by victims. They are infected, deteriorate rapidly, and die shortly after. Jellico is killed by this trap. necrotizing fasciitis Bolts connected to wires are shot across the
room. Several of these ensnare the victim. The wires are tightened which cuts the victim into large chunks. Bartok is killed by this trap. The doors of the room seal and panels close over
them. Arms extend from these panels and unfurl into five dish-like speakers. These speakers then pulverize the victim with intense soundwaves, causing him or her to explode, leaving
nothing but their blood-stained clothes. Meyerhold is killed by this trap. Presumably lethal beams of electricity appear along all the walls of the room and then start shooting through the
center, though these can be dodged with careful placement and some luck. It is revealed that rooms can be trap rooms. In one sequence, Wynn and Rains are in a room and Jax activates
traps in all surrounding rooms, so they cannot escape. He then begins to activate the trap in the room they are in, but is stopped.all The question of what happens to the remains of the
Cube's victims is also answered in Cube Zero. The Cube is swept thermally (a clean sweep) when the cube resets, removing all matter - both the remains of victims and also survivors that
have not found a way out. This explains why the device is not littered with the remains of previous sets of victims. as Eric Wynn, a Cube technician. Zachary Bennett Stephanie Moore as
Cassandra Rains, a political demonstrator. as Jax, a higher ranking Cube technician. Michael Riley Martin Roach as Robert P. Haskell, a soldier employed to take people for the Cube.
David Huband as Dodd, a Cube technician. as Meyerhold, a man trapped in the cube. Mike 'Nug' Nahrgang Richard McMillan as Bartok, a man trapped in the cube. as Jellico, a woman
trapped in the cube. Terri Hawkes Tony Munch as Owen, a cube technician placed in the cube. Jasmin Geljo as Ryjkin, a man trapped in the cube.