China, the Lantern Festival begins evening of the first full moon of the New Year, is celebrated with colorful competitive: See individual lantern, yangge, worship Buddha ceremonial dances
puzzle solving. Bbtz'fl Hill, we mark the event each year with paper lanterns kitsch, a menu of dishes never before seen a flashlight that include components Local. Lantern Festival 2009
We offer reservations for parties of any size in any night.Complimentary parking is available just across the street. Orders lantern Kalamata olives burnt Eggplant salad with warm
Therapni Octopus grilled with wild sumac pepper at home Mint yogurt and Aleppo with cucumbers and fresh fennel pulled garlic in olive oil, Heirloom Tomato and cucumber salad with
pickled onions torpedo, Chapel Hill Creamery feta and crispy butterfish Borage flowers, North Carolina overnight with preserved lemon and roasted leg of lamb Braised beans and
tomatoes cooked Giant slowly in butter brownish olive, capers, salt and fresh oregano Blue Mountain Ridge cherries and peaches in a bath of honey wine with cherry ice cream producer
Pierre Ayrshire farm, farm profit, Bracken Brae Farm, Chapel Hill Creamery, organic farm, Farm, Ferguson, fickle Creek Farm, Lee, api, orchards, Maple View Farm Levering Dairy Farms
Peregrine Meadow Rainbow, Tom Robinson seafood : Provides information about the natural history and plants and animals that live there. Stevens Nature Center in the "conservative
the Hemlock Bluffs Himlux trick of nature": One of the most rugged parks in the state, and offers a number of activities. Rangers are available to teach students about the mountain
watershed and the importance of Overseeing the water. In the area of the triangle of constant business place to admire the best. Recently channel, Chapel Hill, North Carolina Raleigh
Raleigh city recognized as # 2 MSNBC, a &amp; e and just Forbes.com as was referred to in. Triangle as a # 1rated in the magazine's past glory, as the point of the triangle off is that
magazines Linton securities Include a selection? Children up to 6 is free of charge. Free local telephone calls. Old road telephone: (919) 3. Antebellum cabin (about 1780) national register
of historic sites. Includes breakfast. Kitchen facilities. Free local telephone calls. Honeymoon, anniversary or an ideal place for holidays. There are hiking trails. Do not accept credit
cards. Weber House road toll free (866), phone: (919) Alliance for the "historic Hillsborough", encouraging Barnirchibs society that promotes the future in Hillsborough cultural and
economic ties with preserving our past. Living in Hillsborough is not about isolating the past in a time capsule. It is about managing change; integrate old and new ways of improving the
quality of life in Our society; preserve the unique qualities that make Hillsborough is a great place to live, work and visit. Guests can enjoy a breakfast with fresh seasonal fruits,
vegetables, cheeses, eggs and meat farms. EfficiencyGarden Viewoffers your home away from home facilities, fully equipped kitchen, private bathrooms and spacious decks. Large bed for
one night $120/night 2 $95/night 7+ night $90/nightGarden night $100/night from 3 to 7 night view landscape price, guests can enjoy additional discounts, if guests want to resolve their
own breakfast Our restaurant and our menu is relatively small, intimate scale appropriate quality and attention we give each dish to eat and allows our guests deserve. Where the name
of the restaurant Comes from the Panciuto Pan - Chu - Toe words, literally translates as "potbellied", but a simple term of endearment has come to represent. (P) Sweet and Sour
Meatballs Porcupine, Cuban Sandwich, Chili Verde Masa Dumplings.GREEK MENU: Sunday, February 22, 2009 14 $ 25 Pork: Tuesday, February 24, 2009 at 18:30 pasta Pizza $ 25 (P) to
zero; marinara sauce , Assorted Dressings, Garlic Breadsticks.PIZZA PARTY: Thursday, February 26, 2009 at 18:30 $ 25 (H) A collection of vegan recipes that mainly if you are a
vegetarian or flexitarian occasional 12 shield-back to the Chair, Hindi, , sold in the late 19th century: 7,975 dollars. Important cloisonne vase, signed the "Kyoto (Yasuyuki), Meiji period
(late 19th century), sales: $41,800. Russia silver tea and coffee service, CA. 1910 price: 3,600 Yuan; fulangsuowamuxin (Belgium, 1820-1888), SA-Plage Panel, signed lower right oil
"fulangsuowamuxin, sold for: $ 17,600 ... Archive of North Carolina Allied soldiers, 19 letter. For sale; 2000 Yuan. Andongnidimu (United States, Between 1888 and 54), the "door" sold: HK
$ 10,500 Yuan. Course dinner and a MALS class lesson examines the locavore movement by Melanie Mitchell | | | Print Email del.icio.us digg - Durham, NC locavore movement of T he A
new trend that advocates eating food comes from local farms not only good food but encourages new scholarship and teaching. Master of Arts in Liberal Studies class (MALS), "What's for
dinner: Culture and Agriculture," sat around the conference table in the office MALS on Campus Drive for dinner and discussion the ethical and practical implications of supporting small
farmers des.Le last month, 14 students in the For example, we bought all our cattle within 30 km of the farm, our streams layer is milled in Durham, and our most distant point of sale
is 25 km from the local ferme.conomie as a holistic system, we we focus on our landscape so that the people who were here first, microorganisms for large mammals, have the best
chance of pursuing a balanced ecosystem. Butternut squash ravioli with wilted greens, roasted pumpkin seeds, pumpkin oil, parmeggiano e Shank Borough cider glazed pork with cabbage
risotto alla carbonara spaghetti: pasta with house cured pancetta, garlic wilted spinach, bread crumbs, Parmesan, egg pasta sauce pirata: tagliolini with prawns, calamari, shrimp, spicy
tomato sauce arame Bollito Misto: chunks of steak with boiled potatoes, a little Carrots, onions roasted pork belly, fried chicken, parmesan and herbs beef broth Luksusowa potato vodka,
sake, fresh choice, hibiscus infused vodka, fresh lemon juice, Thai basil Luksusowa vodka, lillet Blanc, Lecce's juice is a Ruby in BIM, fresh ginger and lemon soda and cucumber, shone
with straight lemon ginger herbal, lemon, Mango Puree, Iwalvodka AcquaintanceWhisky rumStrange hot and dark soft by Gosling Port, lemon and ginger, spicy Blenheim ALE red Geisha
eggs then. All food do auction serving LB Daniel NCAL 6149: announcer! Will be charged 7% sales tax the State of North Carolina's climate building, as long as you do not have a sales tax
ID. We accept MasterCard, Visa, American Express and discover. At no additional charge. 160 West exit 40-Raleigh Street Hill to run immediately after the train tracks; Exit Turns to the
right. Open: Wednesday to Saturday 5: 30 pm. at 9.00 A.m. Chef / owner: Aaron Vande mark of our food: Italian and southern-inspired food prices: appetizers, $12.09, appetizers,
$21-$28, desserts, $ 7-8 to drink: wine, beer, and limited drinks to bring clogging corking fee of $20 for them, their own wine, smoking: no smoking allowed payment: cash, credit or
debit card (Visa and MasterCard) We near product and purchase as long as the main school of the machine, to the maximum extent possible. Attention principles of procurement planning
coffee Cook Group, and sustainable agriculture. Incorporate organic ingredients list if it cost more manageable. A new place, when 14: 30-8: 00 Cafe also now in the Faculty cafeteria
Local heirloom Apple and sorghum cake, coke sugar and the vinegar, ice cream coconut cheese and hundred fragrant fruit Coke sugar and a coconut biscuit, baked peanut ice cream local
Asia PEAR Holy generation ice cream, fresh cream ice cream of hot chocolate cake, spiced red wine Coke sugar and honey happy fruit Ferguson farm of harmonious, masikeding grape ice
cream and update 1/10/09 of Sesame cashew wealth of-menu as has change, please phone confirmed specific project of available sexual Can someone Fortunately vegetarians to higher
spots on plants, foods that are fresh and sophisticated. Keywords: chefs have perfected the art of breakfast. Go home with three of our favorite breakfast trend of the first places in the
country. Keywords: sophisticated today, Sanctuary of focus-ingredient seafood restaurants of a lobster from Maine cabin-style in a sophisticated fish-we're stuck. Homemade of Red Curry
and stew tofu local pumpkin, spinach, red onion, fresh of curry leaves and slow cooked rice fragrant crisp of eggs noodles, fresh of steamed duck soup, oyster sauce mushroom, cabbage
and onion Shanghai wild bass baked ginger, onion, douchi, green pepper, cabbage steam doll and jasmine rice steam local of of Zhang tea and spice, and Ranch Yang z made chicken
fried pork Niman Ranch fresh galangal, crispy shallots, shrimp fried rice with pickled green papaya salad and rice, local vegetables and homemade spicy XO sauce pork shank Braised
halibut in North Carolina, garlic, chili, tamarind, fresh lime leaves, carrot salad, braised beef with jasmine rice with spare ribs, Korean kimchi local NAPA coconut farms of pine and white
sweet potatoes-Chile bread knot This is the culmination of Orange County at 867 feet and oak in the forest, Lake, Briar bluff and river habitats that exist in the administration of the rocks
are rare and important in this region. With 190 hectares of land and nearly three miles of track, visitors can enjoy a variety of nature and animal life in the region. After a few kilometers
to 15-501 divides left - keep to the right and follow directions to Franklin Street. Franklin St. follow down the Hill in the city (about 3 km), finally crossing the Columbia Street
intersection in the center of the city. More light to pass through and start searching for the flashlight to the left after you pass McDonald. Deinhard Ruppertsberger Spiess, Pfalz, Germany
'93 Riesling Auslese, Ansgar Clsserath Trittenheimer Apotheke Mosel, Germany' 88 Melon De Bourgogne, Domaine Luneau-Papin "L d'Or" Muscadet, France '95 Sauvignon Blanc, Lucien
Crochet Sancerre, Loire France '06 Sauvignon Blanc, Edmond Vatan "Clos La Nore," Sancerre, France-05 Marsanne, Clairette blend, Domaine du Bagnol Cassis in Provence, France '06
Chardonnay, Domaine des Moirots Burgundy, France '07 Chardonnay, Domaine Oudin " Les Serres' Chablis, France-05 Chardonnay, Jean-Marc Pillot "les grands champs," Burgundy,
France-05 Saumur, Loire, France '06 Gamay blend, Domaine de la Ppiere Cuve Granit, Loire, France '07 Barbera, DeForville Alba, Piedmont, Italy '06 Cabernet-Merlot Blend, Chateau La
Rame Sainte Croix du Mont, Bordeaux, France '06 Syrah blend, Domaine Massiac Minervois, France '06 Pinot Noir, Vignoble Klur "Katz," Alsace, France '07 Mencia, D. We along with pigs
fed the whey, has demonstrated their farmstead cheese and Terra Madre prime local produce their partner an October trip to Piedmont Inspired by the Italian representatives and Coupled
with artisan wines from many of the area. Hawley and McKnight farming throughout the evening, their cheeses and discuss their approach to long-term goals. Free concert to pop, the
family of Hillsborough. Historic Hillsborough Alliance, (919) 732-7741. National tour closed Piedmont. Carolina Farm Stewardship Association, (919) 542-2.402. Spring Garden Tour,
Chapel Hill (every two years the odd-numbered years). Chapel Hill Garden Club, (919) 962 to 0.522. Pouvez tournament Bob Gibbons of basketball, campus, Chapel Hill. Bob Gibbons,
(828) 758 to 5.827. Carrboro Carrboro day parks and recreation, (919) service 364 918 to 7. Greek Festival, Chapel Hill. Greek Orthodox Church of San