+reeereeey part of in the UN scheme. Comoros Madagascar Malawi Mayotte Mauritius Mozambique R union Seychelles Zambia Zimbabwe Eastern Africa The and , though more
commonly reckoned in Central and Eastern Africa respectively, are occasionally included in Southern Africa. Democratic Republic of the Congo Tanzania Another geographic delineation for
the region is the portion of Africa south of the and rivers that is, South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and the southern half of Mozambique. This definition is
most commonly used in South Africa. Cunene Zambezi [] citation needed Some sources consider all of the countries south of the equator as being part of Southern Africa. [1] [] edit
Geography A composite satellite image of southern Africa. The terrain of Southern Africa is varied, ranging from and to . The region has both low-lying coastal areas, and mountains.
forest grasslands deserts In terms of natural resources, the region has the world's largest resources of and the platinum group elements, , , and , as well as, , , and . platinum chromium
vanadium cobalt uranium gold titanium iron diamonds [] edit Economy The region is distinct from the rest of Africa, with some of its main including platinum, diamonds, gold, and
uranium, but it is similar in that it shares some of the problems of the rest of the continent. While has left its mark on the development over the course of history, today , , and / are
some of the biggest factors impeding economic growth. The pursuit of and stability is an important part of the region's goals, as demonstrated by the SADC. exports colonialism [] citation
needed poverty corruption HIV AIDS economic political The region has a wide diversity of ecoregions including , , , and . Even though considerable disturbance has occurred in some
regions from habitat loss due to human , and there remain significant numbers of various species, including , , , , , , and . grassland bushveld karoo savanna riparian zones overpopulation
wildlife White Rhino lion leopard impala kudu blue Wildebeest Vervet monkey elephant [] edit Culture and people Southern Africa is home to many cultures and people. It was once
populated by , and in widely-dispersed concentrations. Due to the which edged the previous peoples to the more remote areas of the region, the majority of ethnic groups in this region,
including the,,,,,,and,,, and, speak languages which share common traits. The process of colonization and settling resulted in a significant population of European (, , , etc.) and
Indian descent (, , , etc.) in many southern African countries. San Namaqua Pygmies Bantu expansion Zulu Xhosa Swazi Ndebele Tswana Sotho Shona people BaLunda Mbundu Kikuyu Luo
Bantu language Afrikaners Anglo-Africans Portuguese Africans Cape Malays Koreans Tamils