Elysian Fields, Hoboken, New Jersey From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: , navigation search in , is believed to be the site of the first organized game, giving Hoboken a
strong claim to be the birthplace of baseball.Elysian Fields Hoboken New Jersey baseball In 1845, of began using Elysian Fields in Hoboken to play baseball due to the lack of suitable
grounds across the in . On, , the Knickerbockers played the on these grounds in the first organized game between two clubs. By the 1850's, several Manhattan-based member clubs of the
were using the grounds as their home field. Knickerbocker Club New York City Hudson River Manhattan June 19 1846 New York Nine National Association of Base Ball Players In 1856,
Elysian Fields was the place that inspired pioneering journalist , then a cricket writer for the New York Times, to develop the idea that baseball could be America's National Pastime. As
Chadwick relates: Henry Chadwick "I chanced to go through Elysian Fields during the progress of a contest between the noted Eagle and Gotham Clubs. The game was being sharply
played on both sides, and I watched it with deeper interest that any previous ball match between clubs I had seen. It was not long before I was struck with the idea that base ball was just
the game for a national sport for Americans." Chadwick went on to become the game's preeminent reporter developing baseball's statistics and scoring system. For his contributions he
became known as "The Father of Baseball." Early baseball game played at Elysian Fields, Hoboken (Currier & Ives lithograph). In 1865, the grounds hosted a championship match
between the of New York and the of that was attended by an estimated 20,000 fans and captured in the "The American National Game of Base Ball". Mutual Club Atlantic Club Brooklyn
Currier & Ives lithograph With the construction of two significant baseball parks in Brooklyn enclosed by fences, enabling promoters there to charge admission to games, the prominence
of Elysian Fields began to diminish. In 1868, the leading Manhattan club, the New York Mutuals, shifted its home games to the in Brooklyn. In 1880, the founders of the and finally
succeeded in siting a ballpark on that became known as the . Union Grounds New York Metropolitans New York Giants Manhattan Polo Grounds The last recorded professional baseball
game at Elysian Fields occurred in 1873. The large parkland area was eventually developed for housing. A small remnant of the park remains, on 11th Street, with a plaque denoting its
connection to early baseball