Friends of Milwaukee's Rivers v. Heartland Development Group/ACT Planning and Development Background:Vegetation along a river's edge provides essential protection for the
waterway. Trees, shrubs and undergrowth stabilize the shoreline and prevent soil erosion from entering the river and causing serious problems, such as increasing the rivers temperature,
decreasing the amount of oxygen in the water, reducing the depth of the river due to sediment, and causing a murky, dirty appearance. Besides all the benefits shoreline vegetation
provides for water, it also provides habitat for birds and animals. e-based real estate development company, hired ACT Planning and Development to prepare their property adjacent to
the Milwaukee River for construction. They clear-cut several acres of shoreline vegetation along the river, at a site in the Glendale Business Park, close to Estabrook Park Falls, in
Glendale, Wisconsin. Not only does this increase problems in the already stressed Milwaukee River, but this action ravaged a site that had often been used by area anglers and paddlers
for access to the river.Unfortunately, not everyone understands the importance of shoreline vegetation. Recently, Heartland Development Group, a Milwauke The devastating clear-cut of
these acres of vegetation is a violation of the Clean Water Act because the companies acted without the proper clean water permits from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). For construction projects affecting more than one acre, the DNR requires a construction site storm water permit that requires the developer to establish the means to manage, as
well as limit, storm water runoff from the site. This permit also includes specific language that requires the developer to have and comply with an Erosion Control Plan. On November 8,
2007, Midwest Environmental Advocates sent a to sue under the Clean Water Act to Heartland Development Group and ACT Planning and Development, on behalf of ("FMR"). MEA and FMR
attempted to settle the matter without litigation, engaging Heartland and their attorneys in discussions. FMR sought restoration of the disturbed area and Heartland agreed to hire a
consultant to develop a restoration plan that would utilize native vegetation to stabilize the floodplain area. However, once the DNR deemed the site sufficiently re-vegetated, Heartland
left the table, refusing to continue with the restoration plan that FMR had encouraged.Status: Notice of Intent Friends of Milwaukee's Rivers The conclusion of this matter shows Heartland
Development Group's disregard for native plant restoration and public access to this site. Although we did not obtain the restoration sought for this site, we will continue to work with FMR
and others to improve and protect Milwaukee's rivers.