[] edit Description A. c. contortrix Adults usually grow to a total length of 50-95 cm, although some may exceed 1 m. Males are usually larger than females. The maximum length
reported for this species is 134.6 cm for (Ditmars, 1931). Brimley (1944) mentions a specimen of from , that was "four feet, six inches" (137.2 cm), but this may have been an
approximation. The maximum length for is 132.1 cm (Conant, 1958). A. c. mokasen A. c. mokasen Chapel Hill, North Carolina A. c. contortrix [4] The body is relatively stout and the head
is broad and distinct from the neck. Because the snout slopes down and back, it appears less blunt than that of the cottonmouth, . Consequently, the top of the head extends further
forward than the mouth. A. piscivorus [5] The scalation includes 21-25 (usually 23) rows of at midbody, 138-157 in both sexes and 38-62/37-57 in males/females. The subcaudals are
usually single, but the percentage thereof decreases clinally from the northeast, where about 80% are undivided, to the southwest of the geographic range where as little as 50% may be
undivided. On the head there are usually 9 large symmetrical plates, 6-10 (usually 8) and 8-13 (usually 10) . dorsal scales ventral scales subcaudal scales supralabial scales sublabial
scales [4] The color pattern consists of a pale tan to pinkish tan ground color that becomes darker towards the midline, overlaid with a series of 10-18 (13.4) crossbands.
Characteristically, both the ground color and crossband pattern are pale in. These crossbands are light tan to pinkish tan to pale brown in the center, but darker towards the edges. They
are about 2 scales wide or less at the midline of the back, but expand to a width of 6-10 scales on the sides of the body. They do not extend down to the ventral scales. Often, the
crossbands are divided at the midline and alternate on either side of the body, with some individuals even having more half bands than complete ones. A series of dark brown spots is also
present on the flanks, next to the belly, and are largest and darkest in the spaces between the crossbands. The belly is the same color as the ground color, but may be a little whitish in
part, At the base of the tail there are 1-3 (usually 2) brown crossbands followed by a gray area. In juveniles, the pattern on the tail is more distinct: 7-9 crossbands are visible, while the
tip is yellow. On the head, the crown is usually unmarked, except for a pair of small dark spots, one near the midline of each . A faint postocular stripe is also present; diffuse above and
bordered below by a narrow brown edge.A. c. contortrix parietal scale [5] Several aberrant color patterns for , or populations that with it, have also been reported. In a specimen
described by Livezey (1949) from , 11 of 17 crossbands were not joined middorsally, while on one side three of the crossbands were fused together longitudinally to form an continuous
undulating band, surmounted above by a dark stripe that was 2-2.5 scales wide. In another specimen, from , the first three crossbands were complete, followed by a dark stripe that ran
down either side of the body, with points of pigment reaching up to the midline in six places but never getting there, after which the last four crossbands on the tail were also complete. A
specimen found in by Ernest A. Liner, had a similar striped pattern, with only the first and last two crossbands being normal.A. c. contortrix intergrade Walker County, Texas Lowndes
County, Alabama Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana [5] [] edit Common names Copperhead (snake), chunk head, death adder, highland moccasin, (dry-land) moccasin, narrow-banded
copperhead, northern copperhead, pilot snake, poplar leaf, red oak, red snake, southeastern copperhead, white oak snake, American copperhead, southern copperhead, cantil cobrizo ().
[2] [6] [5] Spanish [3]