Economic history of the United States From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia vde The has its roots in in the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. The American colonies progressed from
marginally successful colonial economies to 13 small, independent farming economies, which joined together in 1776 to form the . In 230 years the United States grew to a huge,
integrated, industrialized economy that makes up over a quarter of the . ba:} The main causes were a large unified market, a supportive political-legal system, vast areas of highly
productive farmlands, vast natural resources (especially timber, coal and oil), and an entrepreneurial spirit and commitment to investing in material and human capital. The economy has
maintained high wages, attracting immigrants by the millions from all over the world. .economic history of the United States European settlements United States of America world
economy Technological and industrial factors played a major role Contents [] edit Pre-colonial While they traded among themselves, had little contact outside the Americas before
European settlers began arriving. Their economic systems, for example the , involved various combinations of and agriculture. Native American economies were profoundly altered by the
arrival of Europeans and the resulting arrival of disease, influx of European goods, business relations with the Europeans regarding the , acquisition of firearms, engagement in wars, loss
of land, and confinement to reservations. Native Americans economy of the Iroquois hunting and gathering fur trade [1] In 1492, , sailing under the Spanish flag, set out to find Asia and
happened upon a "New World." For the next 100 years, English, Spanish, Portuguese, , and French explorers sailed from Europe for the New World, looking for gold, riches, religious merit,
honor, and glory. But the North American wilderness offered early explorers little glory and less gold, so most did not stay. The people who eventually did settle North America arrived
later. In 1607 a small band of settlers built England's first permanent settlement in what was to become the United States at , . Christopher Columbus Dutch Jamestown Virginia [] edit
Colonial era Shipping scene in Salem, Massachusetts, a shipping hub, in the 1770s Revolutionary era cartoon showing US sawing of the horn of a cow (symbolizing a break from British
commerce) with a distressed Englishman watching as other European powers wait to collect milk. The cartoon represents the commercial status of the US during the Revolution. Early
settlers had a variety of reasons for coming to America. The of wanted to create a purified religion in New England. Other colonies, such as Virginia, were founded principally as business
ventures. England's success at colonizing what would become the United States was due in large part to its use of . Charter companies were groups of stockholders (usually merchants and
wealthy landowners) who sought personal economic gain and, perhaps, wanted also to advance England's national goals. While the private sector financed the companies, the King
provided each project with a charter or grant conferring economic rights as well as political and judicial authority. The colonies generally did not show quick profits, however, and the
English investors often turned over their colonial charters to the settlers. The political implications, although not realized at the time, were enormous. The colonists were left to build their
own lives, their own communities, and their own economy. Puritans Massachusetts charter companies What early colonial prosperity there was resulted from trapping and . But throughout
the colonies, people lived primarily on small farms and were self-sufficient. In the few small cities and among the larger of , and , some necessities and virtually all luxuries were
imported in return for , , and . trading in furs plantations South Carolina Virginia tobacco rice indigo exports [2] Supportive industries developed as the colonies grew. A variety of
specialized sawmills, and gristmills appeared. Colonists established shipyards to build fishing fleets and, in time, trading vessels. They also built small iron forges. By the 18th century,
regional patterns of development had become clear: the colonies relied on shipbuilding and sailing to generate wealth; plantations (many using labor) in , Virginia, and the Carolinas grew
tobacco, rice, and indigo; and the middle colonies of New York, , , and shipped general crops and furs. Except for slaves, were generally high higher, in fact, than in England itself.
Because English investors had withdrawn, the field was open to entrepreneurs among the colonists. New England slave Maryland Pennsylvania New Jersey Delaware standards of living By
1770, the North American colonies were ready, both economically and politically, to become part of the emerging self-government movement that had dominated English politics since the
time of (1603 1625). Disputes developed with England over and other matters; Americans in the Thriteen Colonies demanded their , as they saw it, to them - which Britain refused. The
dispute led to the , resulting in and to eventual and for the new United States of America. James I taxation rights as Englishmen select their own representatives to govern and tax
American Revolution an all-out war against the British political independence soverignty Like the English political turmoil of the 17th and 18th centuries, the (1775 1783) was both political
and economic, bolstered by an emerging middle class with a rallying cry of "unalienable rights to life, liberty, and property" a phrase openly borrowed from English philosopher 's (1690).
While political separation from England may not have been the majority of colonists original goal, independence and the creation of a new soverign nation the United States was the
ultimate result, It was a prosperous time. American Revolution John Locke Second Treatise on Civil Government [] citation needed [] edit New nation Chart 1: trends in economic growth,
1700 1850 The , adopted in 1787, established that the entire nation was a unified, or common market, with no internal tariffs or taxes on interstate commerce. The extent of federal
power was much debated, with taking a very broad view as the first . He succeeded in building a strong national credit based on a national debt held by the wealthy and political classes
(who would then have an interest in keeping the government in healthy condition), and funded by tariffs on imported goods. Hamilton believed the United States should pursue economic
growth through diversified shipping, manufacturing, and banking. He proposed measures like to pay the costs of government, along with a tax on whiskey that western farmers strongly
resented. He sought and achieved Congressional authority to create the in 1791; the charter lasted until 1811. U.S. Constitution Alexander Hamilton secretary of the treasury protective
tariff First Bank of the United States [3] and opposed a strong central government (and, consequently, most of Hamilton's economic policies), but they could not stop Hamilton, who
wielded immense power and political clout in the Washington administration. In 1801, however, Jefferson became president and turned to promoting a more decentralized, agrarian
democracy called . (He based his philosophy on protecting the common man from political and economic tyranny. He particularly praised small farmers as "the most valuable citizens.") As
president after Jefferson, James Madison let the bank charter expire in 1811, but the proved the need for a national bank and Madison reversed positions. The was established in 1816,
with a 20 year charter. Thomas Jefferson James Madison Jeffersonian democracy War of 1812 Second Bank of the United States [4] [] edit Expansion and growth "The First Cotton Gin"
conjectural image from 1869 , at first a small-scale crop in the South, boomed following 's invention in 1793 of the , a machine that separated raw cotton from seeds and other waste.
Soon, large plantations, based on slave labor, expanded in the richest lands from the Carolinas westward to Texas. Cotton Eli Whitney cotton gin [5] Millions moved to the more fertile
farmland of the . Government-created national roads and waterways, such as the (1818) and the (1825), helped new settlers migrate west and helped move western farm produce to
market. The Whig Party supported Clay's , which proposed to build internal improvements (roads, canals, harbors) protect industry, and create a strong national bank. The Whig legislation
program was blocked by the Democrats, however. Midwest Cumberland Pike Erie Canal American System Scene of Lockport on the Erie Canal (W. H. Bartlett 1839) President (1829 1837)
opposed the Second National Bank, which he believed favored the entrenched interests of his enemies. When he was elected for a second term, Jackson opposed renewing the bank's
charter, and Congress supported him. Jackson opposed paper money and demanded the government be paid in gold and silver coins. The stopped business growth for three years. Andrew
Jackson Panic of 1837 [6] made a decisive impact on the U.S. economy, making possible the transition to an urban industrial nation with high finance and advanced managerial skills.
Were railroads "indispensable" or not? Everyone agrees they were very important in reality but what if they never existed? argued that an alternative existed--a theoretical network of
canals that were never built. Compared to the nonexistent canals, the railroads only added 5% to US GDP, Fogel argues. (Many canals were built in the 1820s and 1830s but apart from the
most went bankrupt.) In positive terms, railroads invented modern methods for running large-scale business operations, creating a blueprint that all large corporations basically followed
They were first to encounter managerial complexities, labor union issues, and problems of competition. Due to these radical innovations, the railroad became the first large-scale business
enterprise. Railroads Robert Fogel Erie Canal [7] Panics did not curtail rapid U.S. economic growth during the 19th century. Long term demographic growth, expansion into new farmlands,
and creation of new factories continued. New inventions and capital investment led to the creation of new industries and economic growth. As transportation improved, new markets
continuously opened. The made river traffic faster and cheaper, but development of railroads had an even greater effect, opening up vast stretches of new territory for development. Like
canals and roads, railroads received large amounts of government assistance in their early building years in the form of land grants. But unlike other forms of transportation, railroads
also attracted a good deal of domestic and European private investment. steamboat [8] Nevertheless, a combination of vision and foreign investment, combined with the discovery of gold
and a major commitment of America's public and private wealth, enabled the nation to develop a large-scale railroad system, establishing the base for the country's . industrialization
Table 1: RAILROAD MILEAGE INCREASE BY GROUPS OF STATES 1850 SOURCE: Chauncey M. Depew (ed.), p 1110ne Hundred Years of American Commerce 1795 1895 1864, Pennsylvania
oil drilling early in the history of the American oil industry Sharecropper plowing in Alabama (1937) The began in north Europe in the late 18th century and quickly spread to the United
States by early 19th century. Industrial Revolution By 1860, when was elected president, 16% of the people lived in cities with 2500 or more people; a third of the nation's income came
from manufacturing. Urbanized industry was limited primarily to the Northeast; cotton cloth production was the leading industry, with the manufacture of shoes, woolen clothing, and
machinery also expanding. Many new workers were immigrants. Between 1845 and 1855, some 300,000 European immigrants arrived annually. Most were poor and remained in eastern
cities, often at ports of arrival. Abraham Lincoln [9] [] edit Civil War and Reconstruction: 1860s The South, on the other hand, remained rural and dependent on the North for capital and
manufactured goods. Southern economic interests, including slavery, could be protected by political power only as long as the South controlled the federal government. The , organized in
1856, represented the industrialized North. In 1860, Republicans and their presidential candidate, called for ending the expansion of slavery and instead expanding industry, commerce and
business. In 1861, they successfully pushed adoption of a . In 1862, the first Pacific railroad was chartered. In 1863 a national banking system was established to finance the ; in every city
a "First National Bank" was established, and many still exist. Republican Party Abraham Lincoln protective tariff American Civil War [10] The industrial advantages of the North over the
helped secure a Northern victory in the (1861 1865). The Northern victory sealed the destiny of the nation and its economic system. The slave-labor system was abolished; the world price
of cotton plunged, making the large southern cotton plantations much less profitable. Northern industry, which had expanded rapidly before and during the war, surged ahead. Industrialists
came to dominate many aspects of the nation's life, including social and political affairs. South American Civil War [11] The devastation of the South was great and poverty ensued;
incomes of whites dropped, but income of the former slaves rose. During railroad construction was heavily subsidized (with much corruption), but the region maintained its dependence on
cotton. Former slaves became , , or . They were joined by many poor whites, as the population grew faster than the economy. As late as 1940 the only significant manufacturing industries
were textile mills in the Carolinas, and some steel in Alabama. Reconstruction wage laborers tenant farmers sharecroppers [12] [] edit The Gilded Age: 1865 1900 Steel workers in 1905,
Meadville PA Main article: Gilded Age The rapid economic development following the Civil War laid the groundwork for the modern U.S. industrial economy. By the late 1880s, the USA
had overtaken Britain as the world's most powerful economy. [13] An explosion of new discoveries and inventions took place, causing such profound changes that some termed the results
a"." Railroads greatly expanded the mileage and built heaver cars and locomotives, carrying far more goods and people at lower rates. Refrigeration railroad cars came into use. The , ,
and electric light were invented. By the dawn of the 20th century, had begun to replace horse-drawn carriages. Second Industrial Revolution telephone phonograph typewriter cars [14]
Parallel to these achievements was the development of the nations industrial infrastructure. Coal was found in abundance in the from Pennsylvania south to . was discovered in western
Pennsylvania. Large mines opened in the region of the upper Midwest. thrived in places where these two important raw materials could be brought together to produce steel. Large copper
and silver mines opened, followed by lead mines and cement factories. Appalachian Mountains Kentucky Oil iron Lake Superior Steel mills [15] As industry grew larger, it developed
methods. pioneered the field of scientific management in the late 19th century, carefully plotting the functions of various workers and then devising new, more efficient ways for them to
do their jobs. After 1910 mass production was speeded up by the electrification of factories, replacing water power. mass-production Frederick W. Taylor [16] 1904 cartoon entitled
"Next!" depicting Standard Oil as a ruthless octopus The TM of the second half of the 19th century was the epoch of tycoons. Many Americans came to idealize these businessmen who
amassed vast financial empires. Often their success lay in seeing the long-range potential for a new service or product, as did with oil. They were fierce competitors, single-minded in
their pursuit of financial success and power. Other giants in addition to Rockefeller and Ford included , who made his money in railroads; , banking; and , steel. Some tycoons were honest
according to business standards of their day; others, however, used force, bribery, and guile to achieve their wealth and power. For better or worse, business interests acquired significant
influence over government. Morgan operated on a grand scale in both his private and business life. He and his companions gambled, sailed yachts, gave lavish parties, and built palatial
homes; Morgan was also a lay leader of the Episcopalian Church and one of the world's leading art collectors. In contrast, men such as Rockefeller and Ford exhibited puritanical qualities
They retained small-town values and lifestyles. As church-goers, they felt a sense of responsibility to others. They believed that personal virtues could bring success; theirs was the gospel
of work and thrift. Later their heirs would establish the largest philanthropic foundations in America. While upper-class European intellectuals generally looked on commerce with disdain,
most Americans living in a society with a more fluid class structure enthusiastically embraced the idea of moneymaking. They enjoyed the risk and excitement of business enterprise, as
well as the higher living standards and potential rewards of power and acclaim that business success brought. Gilded Age John D. Rockefeller Jay Gould J. Pierpont Morgan Andrew
Carnegie [17] began with the first significant , the in 1869. The Knights collapsed in the 1880s and were displaced by strong international unions that banded together as the under
Rejecting socialism, the AFL unions negotiated with owners for higher wages and better working conditions. Union growth was slow until 1900, then grew to a peak during . The American
labor movement labor union Knights of Labor American Federation of Labor Samuel Gompers World War I [18] To modernize traditional agriculture reformers founded the , in 1867.
Federal land grants helped each state create an agricultural college and a network of extension agents who demonstrated modern techniques to farmers. Wheat and cotton farmers in the
1890s supported the movement, but failed in their demands for free silver and inflation. Instead the 1896 election committed the nation to the gold standard and a program of sustained
industrialization. Grange movement Populist. 1900 panoramic image of the Chicago slaughter houses Carnegie Steel Co. facility in Ohio c.1910 [] edit Progressive Era: 1890 1920
Eight-hour workday demonstration in New York (1871) A political cartoon symbolically depicting President Wilson using tariff, currency, and anti-trust laws to prime the pump and get the
economy working. Main article: Progressive Era In the early years of American history, most political leaders were reluctant to involve the federal government too heavily in the private
sector, except in the area of transportation. In general, they accepted the concept of , a doctrine opposing government interference in the economy except to maintain law and order. This
attitude started to change during the latter part of the 19th century, when small business, farm, and labor movements began asking the government to intercede on their behalf.
laissez-faire [19] By the turn of the century, a middle class had developed that was leery of both the business elite and the somewhat radical political movements of farmers and laborers
in the Midwest and West. Known as , these people favored government regulation of business practices to, in their minds, ensure competition and free enterprise. Congress enacted a law
regulating railroads in 1887 (the ), and one preventing large firms from controlling a single industry in 1890 (the ). These laws were not rigorously enforced, however, until the years
between 1900 and 1920, when Republican President (1901 1909), Democratic President (1913 1921), and others sympathetic to the views of the Progressives came to power. Many of
today's U.S. regulatory agencies were created during these years, including the and the . were journalists who encouraged readers to demand more regulation of business. 's (1906)
showed America the horrors of the Chicago , a giant complex of meat processing that developed in the 1870s. The federal government responded to Sinclair's book with the new regulatory
wrote a series of articles against the monopoly. The series helped pave the way for the breakup of the monopoly. Progressives Interstate Commerce Act Sherman Antitrust Act Theodore
Roosevelt Woodrow Wilson Interstate Commerce Commission Federal Trade Commission Muckrakers Upton Sinclair The Jungle Union Stock Yards Food and Drug Administration Ida M.
Tarbell Standard Oil [20] When Democrat was elected President with a Democratic Congress in 1912 he implemented a series of progressive policies. In 1913, the was ratified, and the
was instituted in the United States. Wilson resolved the longstanding debates over tariffs and antitrust, and created the , a complex business-government partnership that to this day
dominates the financial world. Woodrow Wilson Sixteenth Amendment income tax Federal Reserve In 1913, , adopted the moving assembly line, with each worker doing one simple task
in the production of automobiles. Taking his cue from developments during the progressive era, Ford offered a very generous wage $5 a day to his workers, arguing that a enterprise could
not survive if average workers could not buy the goods. However, the wage increase did not extend to women, and Ford expanded the company's Sociological Department to monitor his
workers and ensure that they did not spend their new found bounty on "vice and cheap thrills." Henry Ford mass production [21] [] edit Roaring twenties: 1920 1929 People filing tax
forms in 1920 Main article: Roaring Twenties Under Republican President , who called for normalcy and an end to high wartime taxes, Secretary of the Treasury raised the tariff, cut
other taxes, and used the large surplus to reduce the federal debt by about a third from 1920 to 1930. Secretary of Commerce worked to introduce efficiency, by business practices. This
period of prosperity, along with the culture of the time, was known as the . The rapid growth of the automobile industry stimulated industries such as oil, glass, and road-building. Tourism
soared and consumers with cars had a much wider radius for their shopping. Small cities prospered, and large cities had their best decade ever, with a boom in construction of offices,
factories and homes. The new electric power industry transformed both business and everyday life. Telephones and electricity spread to the countryside, but farmers never recovered from
the wartime bubble in land prices. Millions migrated to nearby cities. However, in October 1929, the and banks began to fail in the . Warren G. Harding Andrew Mellon Herbert Hoover
regulating Roaring Twenties stock market crashed Wall Street Crash of 1929 [22] [] edit Great Depression: 1929 1941 Main article: Great Depression in the United States Stock exchange
trading floor after the 1929 crash Missouri migrants living in a truck in California. Many displaced people moved to California to look for work during the Depression. depicted the situation
in John Steinbeck The Grapes of Wrath The did not cause the depression but it made no effort to intervene by helping banks. The money supply fell by one-third, and it was hard to get a
loan. President passed a massive tax increase to boost sagging federal revenues, and signed the protectionist , which incited retaliation by Canada, Britain, Germany and other trading
partners. The U.S. economy plunged into . By 1932, the unemployment rate was 23.6%. Conditions were worse in heavy industry, lumbering, export agriculture (cotton, wheat, tobacco),
and mining. Conditions were not quite as bad in white collar sectors and in light manufacturing. Federal Reserve Board Herbert Hoover Smoot-Hawley Tariff depression [23] was elected
President in 1932 without a specific program. He relied on a highly eclectic group of advisors who patched together many programs, known as the . Franklin Delano Roosevelt New Deal
The economy eventually recovered from the low point of the winter of 1932-33, with sustained improvement until 1937, when the brought back 1934 levels of unemployment. There is a
broad consensus among scholars that the New Deal policies did not lengthen and deepen the depression; only 5% of professional historians and 27% of professional economists believe it
served to lengthen and deepen the Great Depression.. Recession of 1937 [24] Government spending increased from 8.0% of GNP under Hoover in 1932 to 10.2% of GNP in 1936. While
Roosevelt balanced the "regular" budget the emergency budget was funded by debt, which increased from 33.6% of GNP in 1932 to 40.9% in 1936. had been recommended by some
economists, most notably in Britain. Roosevelt met Keynes but did not pay attention to his recommendations. After a meeting with Keynes, who kept drawing diagrams, Roosevelt
remarked that "He must be a mathematician rather than a political economist." [25] Deficit spending John Maynard Keynes The extent to which the spending for relief and public works
provided a sufficient stimulus to revive the U.S. economy, or whether it harmed the economy, is also debated. If one defines economic health entirely by the gross domestic product, the
U.S. had gotten back on track by 1934, and made a full recovery by 1936, but as Roosevelt said, one third of the nation was ill fed, ill-housed and ill-clothed. See Chart 3. GNP was 34%
higher in 1936 than 1932, and 58% higher in 1940 on the eve of war. The economy grew 58% from 1932 to 1940 in 8 years of peacetime, and then grew 56% from 1940 to 1945 in 5 years
of wartime. However, the unemployment rate never went below 9% before the draft. During the war the economy operated under so many different conditions that comparison is
impossible with peacetime, such as massive spending, price controls, bond campaigns, controls over raw materials, prohibitions on new housing and new automobiles, rationing,
guaranteed cost-plus profits, subsidized wages, and the draft of 12 million soldiers. Chart 3: GDP annual pattern and long-term trend, 1920 40, in billions of constant dollars [26] As
Broadus Mitchell summarized, "Most indexes worsened until the summer of 1932, which may be called the low point of the depression economically and psychologically." Economic
indicators show the American economy reached nadir in summer 1932 to February 1933, then began a steady, sharp upward recovery that persisted until 1937. Thus the Federal Reserve
Index of Industrial Production hit its low of 52.8 on July 1, 1932 and was practically unchanged at 54.3 on March 1, 1933; however by July 1, 1933, it reached 85.5 (with 1935 39 = 100,
and for comparison 2005 = 1,342). [27] [28] Table 2: Depression Data [29] 1929