A National Crisis - Not Just a Michigan Problem Posted on by MNANovember 24, 2008 hear mostly about the fighting over the Auto Bail Out and how poorly the request to Congress was
handled. What we are not hearing is what will be the REAL impact as the domestic auto manufacturing goes down or goes under. Here are some to tease you with that are not being played
in the media. IDve spent my week listening to and looking at sobering news. Regardless how you paint the picture, Michigan is in for a brutal couple of years, if not longer. On the news
however, we Photo by powerbooktrance on Flickr facts from the Center for Automotive Research Fact: In Michigan some 153,000 jobs will be lost if GM, Ford and Chrysler fail. Those are
direct employment numbers and do not include the ripple effect with suppliers and related companies. Those numbers reach 300,000. Fact: For the nation, direct unemployment numbers
will reach 239,000 and total employment losses will exceed 2.9 million! Fact: Job losses and economic impacts of this scale will lead to horrific social conditions beyond unemployment,
foreclosures, personal bankruptcies, and homelessness. Time and time again, we all have witnessed the increases in deep social challenges during hard economic times including domestic
violence, suicide, drug use and the list goes on. Publishing of these facts and discussion in the media are almost nonexistent. We all have to take on the role of telling the story that This
is a national crisis not just a Michigan problem. Sure we have to take on the blame of not making cars that people will buy, for not exceeding fuel efficiency standards, for accepting and
encouraging unsustainable contracts and for the arrogance of leaders believing that we are entitled somehow to a cash bailout without a plan. But now this crisis is before us and simply
saying that the Big Three deserve to fail is like pointing fingers at the bow of a hole-ridden, leaking boat and blaming the lake for rushing in. We need to plug the holes, bail out the water
and redesign the boat lest we all drown!