[] edit Plot details Doug Ross was raised by his mother, Sarah, after his father, Ray, abandoned their family. He revealed that his father came back to his family a few times but was
never committed to them. In Season 1, he revealed to a patient that he had a son, not much else is known about Doug's past. Despite his jumbled personal life, Ross is a dedicated ER
pediatrician. He has always been committed to medicine and children and to helping no matter the rules or consequences. During Season 2, Doug rescued a boy trapped in a flooding
storm drain during a rainstorm. His heroic efforts were filmed on local television thus making him a media star. This even helped him earn back his job at County, because his supervisor
in pediatrics wasn't going to renew his fellowship on account of his disrespect to authority, but the hospital administration forced the supervisor to offer Doug a deal to return which he
accepted. During Season 2, Ray, Doug's father, tries to reconcile with his estranged son. Doug has difficulty reconnecting with the man who abandoned him and his mother. Ray has made
something of himself by owning a very ritzy hotel in Chicago, and Doug lets his guard down a little, but is disappointed yet again when his father offers to take him to a Bulls game and
then stands him up. Doug later has an affair with Ray's girlfriend, a woman who Ray stole money from, but ends the relationship when it becomes clear she has a lot of problems herself.
Doug gets @ phone call one day informing him of his fathers passing, and that someone would need to pick up the cremated remains. He goes to on a road trip with to collect his remains.
Ross finds out that his father was killed in an automobile accident; he had been and killed the other driver, himself and his new wife. Doug visits the funeral ceremony to express his
sorrow to the victim's family, but ultimately does not and tells the priest overseeing the ceremony that his father was responsible, who then reassures Doug that he truly loved his father.
When Doug and Mark find the hotel his father stayed in, he finds his father's car and belongings. They discover home videos that Ray had taken of Doug and his mother. Later on, Doug
finds his girlfriend, nurse , waiting for him and they kiss passionately. California Dr. Mark Greene drunk at the wheel Carol Hathaway Doug is 2 womanizer, who has dated and left many
women throughout the course of the show; in the first season, it is mentioned that Doug has an eight-year-old son whom he has never met, but nothing further is ever revealed. Doug's
womanizing days come to an abrupt end when he had a one night stand with an epileptic woman who hides her condition and ends up in the ER and then dies after which Doug remains
single until he gets back together with Carol. Doug has an on-again, off-again relationship with Carol Hathaway, the head nurse of the ER at County. He pursued her constantly when she
was trying to move on with her life after their horrible break-up. After a while, they become a couple and are even engaged. They seem happy, and were also supporting each other in the
ER. Doug was always an advocate for his patients, and often broke the rules to help them. Eventually, his attempts to help his patients went too far - leading to reprisals and the closure of
Hathaway's clinic - and he decided to leave for at the end of Season 5. Carol decided not to go with him to Seattle, but he shared a drink with his best friend, , before he leaves. Carol
discovers she is pregnant with his twin girls, named Tess and Kate, and these daughters are born after Doug leaves. He's last seen in the Season 6 episode "Such Sweet Sorrow", in which
Hathaway leaves Chicago to reunite with him. She finds him working on his boat behind his house in and the two embrace and kiss. It is later revealed in Season 8 that Hathaway sent for
the twins the next day and has been living with Ross in Seattle since. , the studio which produces for , kept Dr. Ross' cameo in "Such Sweet Sorrow" a secret from NBC, which promoted
the episode as Carol Hathaway's goodbye, with no mention of Dr. Ross' appearance. In fact, the original version of "Such Sweet Sorrow" that Warner Brothers sent to NBC ended right
after the scene where we see Hathaway on the plane to Seattle. At the 11th hour Warner Brothers messengered an "edited" version of the episode to NBC headquarters in New York for
broadcast NBC had no time to preview the episode prior to airing what turned out to be an extended episode in which Clooney appears. NBC was miffed that it was kept in the dark as it
lost valuable ad revenue it could have generated if it had aired promos that the episode would mark the return of George Clooney. Clooney cited the fans of the show for his reason as to
why he agreed to make the cameo (he wanted Hathaway and Ross' characters to get back together, as most fans always had hoped for). Clooney reportedly only asked to be paid for the
cameo. The portion of the episode with Clooney was filmed on location at the set which Clooney was filming at the time. Chicago Seattle Dr. Mark Greene Washington Warner Brothers ER
NBC scale Perfect Storm In the 11th season finale TM" Dr. Ross was briefly shown in a photograph that was part of a slideshow at 's farewell party. The Show Must Go On Dr. John Carter
In the season 14 episode, "Status Quo", Jeanie Boulet mentions Doug and Carol when she returns to the ER. Nurse Haleh Adams states that they are living happily in Seattle and that their
daughters are now in 3rd grade. [] edit Career In the pilot episode, which takes place on , Dr. Ross is brought into the ER not long before his shift to be "treated" for drunkenness by his
longtime friend, . Throughout the next few seasons, Doug is shown to be compassionate, though not always using the best judgment. As a pediatrician, he deals primarily with children. His
love for kids is best seen during darker situations, such as when a child is in danger. When Peter Benton talks about how surgeons deal with emotionally charged cases and ER doctors
have it easy, Doug leaves him stunned into silence when describing cases that include a young girl who beat her mother to death, a kid who is going to lose his leg to cancer and another
kid who is dying from a life of homelessness. His lack of judgment leads to him going as far as to assault parents in the ER, but his counseling in that case just consisted of the shrink
telling him not to do that again. St. Patrick's Day 1994 Dr. Mark Greene abusive He is a passionate doctor who puts the welfare of his patients, especially children, above his medical
career. In one episode Dr. Ross saves a young boy who is drowning and is flown in to County General using a news helicopter. This garners him much attention, earns him an award and
saves his job. Doug doesn't handle authority well, even when his best friend, is his boss. Doug is a but in several episodes has performed medical procedures on adults. Dr. Mark Greene
pediatrician In one episode, Doug learns about one of his young patients, an athlete, is stressed out about being gay and in the closet. Doug initially seems uncomfortable with talking to
the boy, who leaves the hospital without revealing what's troubling him. In one episode, he tries to do an ultra-rapid on a drug-addicted baby without the mother's consent. This procedure
was assisted by Carol, but when Greene and Weaver discover the procedure, being done in violation of hospital policy and the law, he is punished. He was left on for 30 days, and was
supervised by and Dr. Greene, who had to co-sign his charts. Doug's attitude towards patient treatment often has consequences for his coworkers and supervisors, who have received
reprimands from their superiors for Doug's actions. detox probation Dr. Kerry Weaver He vies to be an attending physician for pediatrics. He eventually gets the job, even though Drs.
Greene and Weaver opposed his promotion because the position wasn't necessary and the funds were needed elsewhere. Mark was ultimately happy for Doug but Kerry was aghast and
rallied against his new position. He eventually resigns in the aftermath of a scandal in which he shows a mother how to bypass the lockouts on a PCA, enabling her to give a lethal dose of
medication to her son. Doug had earlier stolen medication from a pain medication study and given it to the mother, only to be discovered by Weaver and Mark, who reprimanded him but
kept the incident private. The incident also prompts the closure of Carol's free clinic in the hospital, since it supplied the PCA to this mother, and Doug faces suspension from work at
County and possible criminal charges. A friend of Doug's stands up for him and the charges against him are dropped, but Doug resigns from the hospital and plans to move to Seattle, WA.
As a result, when Doug left, he and Carol are on poor terms until she discovers she's with his twin girls. Her clinic is later re-opened, but Carol has to report to her former assistant there.
Dilaudid terminally ill pregnant Dr. Doug Ross was written out of the series because Clooney wished to pursue a film career. He also said that there wasn't any strong story in place for
his character after Season 5.[] cite this quote Recently in an interview with TV Guide, Original ER cast member who worked alongside Clooney for five seasons revealed that George
Clooney will return to for its 15th and final season in 2009. Noah Wyle ER This article . Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and removed.does not any cite
references or sources improve this article reliable sources Unverifiable (April 2008)