vde Inthe military milieu, a series of geopolitical formulations inspired by the ideas of general reached their pinnacle. The valorization of the countrys territorial attributes was
accompanied by an increase in its defensive capacity. The need for a more effective occupation of the was prioritized. The construction of the () began as part of the National Integration
Plan (PIN). In this spirit, Brazil s territorial sea was extended to 200 miles (370 km) off-shore. Golbery do Couto e Silva Amazon Rainforest Transamazon Roadway 1970 French General ,
a veteran of the , came to Brazil in 1973. General Aussaresses used "" methods during the , including the systemic use of torture, and . He later trained U.S. officers and gave taught
military courses for Brazil's military intelligence. He later acknowledged maintaining close links with the military. Paul Aussaresses Algerian War counter-revolutionary warfare Battle of
Algiers death squads death flights [1] Included among the "," together with , and , the Brazilian government tried to dilute its identity as a . Its foreign policy began to be labeled "national
interest diplomacy" based on the expectation that Brazil was becoming a power to be reckoned with. emerging powers Mexico Nigeria India Third World country The expansion of Brazil's
international agenda coincided with the administrative reform of the Ministry of External Relations. Its move to in 1971 was followed by internal modernization. New departments were
created, responding to the diversification of the international agenda and the increasing importance of economic diplomacy. Examples include the creation of a trade promotion system
(1973) and the Alexandre de Gusm o Foundation (1971) to develop studies and research foreign policy. Bras lia Foreign policy during the Gibson Barboza mandate (1969-74) united three
basic positions. The first one, ideological, defended the presence of military governments in Latin America. To achieve that, the OAS fought terrorism in the region. The second one
criticized the distension process between the two superpowers, condemning the effects of American and Soviet power politics. The third requested support for development, considering
that Brazil, with all its economic potential, deserved greater responsibility within the international system. New demands and intentions appeared, related to the idea that the nation was
strengthening its bargaining power in the world system. At international forums, its main demand became "collective economic security". The endeavor to lead Third World countries made
Brazil value multilateral diplomacy. Efforts in this direction can be observed at the UN Conference on Environment (1972), the GATT meeting in Tokyo (1973) and the Law of the Sea
Conference (1974). This new Brazilian stance served as a base for the revival of its relationship with the United States. Differentiation from other Latin American countries was sought, to
mean special treatment from the United States. Nevertheless, not only was this expectation not fulfilled but military assistance and the MEC-USAID educational cooperation agreement
were interrupted. Washington held itself aloof at the time of President M dici's visit to the United States in 1971. In response, especially in the military and diplomatic spheres, nationalist
ideas were kindled and raised questions about the alignment policy with the United States. The presence of J.A. de Ara jo Castro, as ambassador to Washington in this period, contributed
to the re-definition of relations with the American government. The strategic move was to try to expand the negotiation agenda by paying special attention to the diversification of trade
relations, the beginning of nuclear cooperation, and the inclusion of new international policy themes. In 1971 the military dictatorship helped rig Uruguayan elections, which , a left-wing
politician, lost. The government participated in , which involved various Latin American security services (including and the Argentine ) in the assassination of political opponents. Frente
Amplio [2] Operation Condor Pinochet's DINA SIDE During this period, Brazil began to devote more attention to less-developed countries. Technical cooperation programs were initiated in
Latin America and in Africa, accompanied in some cases by State company investment projects in particular in the fields of energy and communication. With this pretext, an
inter-ministerial system was created by Itamaraty and the Ministry of Planning, whose function it was to select and coordinate international cooperation projects. To foster these
innovations, in 1972 foreign minister Gibson Barboza visited Senegal, Togo, Ghana, Dahomey, Gabon, Zaire, Nigeria, Cameroon and Ivory Coast. However, the prospect of economic
interests and the establishment of cooperation programs with these countries were not followed by a revision of the Brazilian position on the colonial issue. Traditional loyalty was still
towards Portugal. Attempts were made to consolidate the creation of a Portuguese-Brazilian community. Brazilian diplomats began to support the demands of the in the . Arab League
Arab-Israeli conflict [] edit Geisel administration, , and the 1973 oil shockdistens 0 It was in this atmosphere that retired General (1974-79) came to the presidency with M dici's approval
There had been intense behind-the-scenes maneuvering by the hard-liners against him and by the more moderate supporters of Castelo Branco for him. Fortunately for Geisel, his brother,
Orlando Geisel, was the minister of army, and his close ally, General Jo 0 Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo, was chief of M dici's military staff. Ernesto Geisel Although not immediately
understood by civilians, Ernesto Geisel's accession signaled a move toward a less oppressive ule. Geisel replaced several regional commanders with trusted officers and labeled his
political program , meaning a gradual relaxation of authoritarian rule. It would be, in his words, "the maximum of development possible with the minimum of indispensable
security."distens 0 President Geisel sought to maintain high economic growth rates, even while seeking to deal with the effects of the oil shocks. He kept up massive investments in
infrastructure highways, telecommunications, hydroelectric dams, mineral extraction, factories, and atomic energy. Fending off nationalist objections, he opened Brazil to oil prospecting by
foreign firms for the first time since the early 1950s. Brazil suffered drastic reductions in its terms of trade as a result of the . In the early 1970s, the performance of the export sector
was undermined by an overvalued currency. With the trade balance under pressure, the oil shock led to a sharply higher import bill. Thus, the Geisel government borrowed billions of
dollars to see Brazil through the oil crisis. This strategy was effective in promoting growth, but it also raised Brazil's import requirements markedly, increasing the already large
current-account deficit. The current account was financed by running up the foreign debt. The expectation was that the combined effects of import-substitution industrialization and export
expansion eventually would bring about growing trade surpluses, allowing the service and repayment of the foreign debt. 1973 world oil shock Brazil shifted its foreign policy to meet its
economic needs. "Responsible pragmatism" replaced strict alignment with the United States and a worldview based on ideological frontiers and blocs of nations. Because Brazil was 80%
dependent on imported , Geisel shifted the country from an acritical support of to a more neutral stance on Middle Eastern affairs. His government also recognized the People's Republic of
China and the new governments of Angola and Mozambique. The government moved closer to , , and. The 1975 agreement with to build nuclear reactors produced confrontation with the
Carter administration, which also scolded the Geisel government for abusing human rights. Frustrated with what he saw as the highhandedness and lack of understanding of the , Geisel
renounced the military alliance with the United States in April 1977. oil Israel Latin America Europe Japan West Germany Carter administration In 1977 and 1978 the succession issue
caused further political confrontations with the hard-liners. Noting that Brazil was only a "relative democracy," Geisel attempted in April 1977 to restrain the growing strength of the
opposition parties by creating an electoral college that would approve his selected replacement. In October he dismissed the far-right minister of army, General . In 1978 Geisel
maneuvered through the first labor strikes since 1964 and through the repeated electoral victories of the opposition (Movimento Democr tico Brasileiro MDB). He allowed exiled citizens to
return, restored , repealed the extraordinary powers decreed by the Fifth Institutional Act, and imposed General Jo 0 Figueiredo (1979-85) as his successor in March 1979. Sylvio Cueto
Coelho da Frota Brazilian Democratic Movement habeas corpus