6 External links [] edit Mode of action Cetuximab is believed to operate by binding to the extracellular domain of the of all cells that express EGFR, preventing ligand binding and
activation of the receptor. This blocks the downstream signaling of EGFR resulting in impaired cell growth and proliferation. Cetuximab has also been shown to mediate antibody dependent
cellular cytotoxicity (). EGFR ADCC [] edit Colorectal Cancer Cetuximab is used in metastatic and is given concurrently with the chemotherapy drug (Camptosar), a form of that blocks the
effect of , resulting in fatal damage to the DNA of affected cells. While there remains some scientific controversy on this, assessment for EGFR expression is required for use in Colorectal
Cancer, but not in Head & Neck Cancer. It is best to refer to updated Prescription Information. colon cancer irinotecan chemotherapy DNA topoisomerase I [2] [] edit Head and neck
cancer Cetuximab was approved by the in March 2006 for use in combination with for treating of the head and neck (SCCHN) or as a single agent in patients who have had prior
platinum-based therapy. FDA [3] radiation therapy squamous cell carcinoma One of the side effects of Cetuximab therapy is the incidence of, possibly severe, acne-like rash. [] edit
ImClone insider trading scandal Further information: ImClone Systems Insider trading scandal The initial failure of to prepare an acceptable filing led to the infamous scandal when
ImClone's CEO sold ImClone shares and this information was leaked to Stewart before the announced its refusal to approve the drug for public use. Martha Stewart, (the founder and
former CEO of ImClone), and their broker were indicted, and Stewart and Waksal were sentenced to prison. ImClone shares dropped sharply in the aftermath of the insider trading

scandal. ImClone Systems FDA Martha Stewart insider trading FDA Samuel D. Waksal A new clinical trial and filing prepared by Imclone's partner ("German Merck," not to be confused
with the US company of similar name) resulted in an approval of the drug in 2004 for use in the treatment of colon cancer. FDA Merck KGaA FDA [] edit KRAS Testing Research studies
have indicated that detection of gene mutations helps physicians identify patients that are unlikely to respond to treatment with targeted , including cetuximab and . Accordingly, genetic
testing to confirm the absence of KRAS mutations is likely to become more common before starting treatment with . The Colorectal Cancer Coalition provides more information about KRAS
testing, and where an individual can be tested at . KRAS EGFR inhibitors panitumumab EGFR inhibitors [4] Fightcolorectalcancer.org [] edit References *