6 External links [] edit Design and development The designation DC-4 was first used by Douglas Aircraft Company when developing a large, four-engined type to complement its very
successful , already in widespread operation. It was intended to fulfil ' requirement for a long-range passenger airliner. Retrospectively this aircraft became known as the (E for
experimental). It emerged as a 42-passenger airliner with a of unusually wide cross-section for its day with two decks and a triple fin , similar to that later used by on its . The triple fin
and double deck were abandoned on subsequent models, and the more common single fin was utilised. DC-3 United Airlines DC-4E fuselage tail unit Lockheed Constellation The DC-4E first
flew on , , piloted by and was used by United Air Lines for test flights. The type proved to be ahead of its time: it was complicated to maintain and uneconomical to operate. The
sponsoring airlines, and United, decided to ask instead for a smaller and simpler derivative but before the definitive DC-4 could enter service the outbreak of the Second World War meant
production was channeled to the and the type was given the military designation . Additional versions used by the were designated . The first aircraft, a C-54, flew from in on , . June 7
1938 Benny Howard Eastern United States Army Air Forces C-54 Skymaster US Navy RSD Clover Field Santa Monica, California February 14 1942 Very few DC-4s remain in service today,
though 26 remained airworthy in 2007 including C-54s. The last three passenger DC-4s believed to be running worldwide all operate out of historic in Germiston, near in. Two fly old (SAA)
colors. They are ZS-AUB "Outeniqua and ZS-8MH "Lebombo" and are owned by the and operated by , an company specialised in Classic Airliner charters to exotic destinations in Africa
The other Skymaster is ZS-AUA "Tafelberg which is also operated by Skyclass Aviation but is leased from the . [1] Rand Airport Johannesburg South Africa South African Airways South
African Airways Museum Society [1] Skyclass Aviation [2] Dutch Dakota Association [] edit Production The DC-4 had a notable innovation in that its nosewheel allowed it to incorporate a
fuselage of constant cross-section for most of its length. This lent itself to easy stretching into the later and . A total of 1,163 C-54/RSDs were built for the United States military services
between 1942 and January 1946. landing gear DC-6 DC-7 C54E-DC VH-PAF, Archerfield, 2007. Douglas continued to develop the type during the war in preparation for a return to airline
services when peace returned. However, the type's sales prospects were hit by the offloading of 500 wartime C-54s and RSDs onto the civil market. DC-4s were a favorite of such as Great
Lakes Airlines, North American Airlines, Universal Airlines, Transocean Airlines, etc. In the 1950s, Transocean Airlines (Oakland, California) was the largest operator of the DC-4. charter
airlines Douglas produced just 79 new-build DC-4s before production ceased on , . was available as an option, but all civilian DC-4s (and C-54s) were built unpressurized. August 9 1947
Pressurization The DC-4/C-54 proved a popular and reliable type and several remain in service as of 2007. An example is Brooks Fuel of , and in northern . Fairbanks, Alaska Buffalo
Airways Canada Postwar passenger model. This civil model could carry up to 86 passengers.DC-4-1009 Postwar freight model.DC-4-1037 [] edit Derivatives - 71 DC-4s were built by
under the designations , , , and . With the exception of the single C-5, these were all powered by engines and 51 of them were pressurized. The , , and operated these aircraft, the latter
under the type name "Argonaut". DC4M North Star Canadair North StarDC-4MC-4C-5 Rolls-Royce Merlin Royal Canadian Air Force Trans-Canada Air Lines Canadian Pacific Air Lines BOAC -
Starting in 1959, 21 DC-4s and C-54s found new life as ATL-98 Carvairs. The Carvair was designed to carry 22 passengers and 5 automobiles. This was accomplished by extending the
fuselage, moving the cockpit above the fuselage, adding a side-opening nose, and enlarging the to offset the larger forward fuselage. These planes served as flying ferries well into the
seventies, and two are still airworthy as of March 2008 - one each in and South Africa. Aviation Traders Carvair vertical stabilizer Texas [] citation needed