For the music festival, see . Agglutination Metal Festival The middle sign is in , which agglutinates extensively. (The top and bottom signs are in and , respectively, both .) Hungarian
Romanian German inflecting languages In , is the process of adding to the of a . Languages that use agglutination widely are called . These languages are often contrasted with and
However, both fusional and isolating languages may use agglutination in the most-often-used constructs, and use agglutination heavily in certain contexts, such as word derivation. This is
the case in , which is an isolating language, but has an agglutinated plural marker and derived words such as . linguistics agglutination morphological affixes base word agglutinative
languages fusional languages isolating languages English -(e)sshame less ness Agglutinative suffixes are often inserted irrespective of , for example, by adding a consonant to the as in
English . Native speakers of strongly agglutinating languages untrained in linguistics cannot usually break down an agglutinated word into its components. Agglutinative languages also
have large inventories of , too, which can be and are separated from the word root by native speakers in daily usage. syllabic boundaries syllable coda tie ties enclitics [] edit Examples
of agglutinative languages Main article: Agglutinative language Examples of European agglutinative languages are the , such as , and . These have highly agglutinated expressions in daily
usage, and most words are bisyllabic or longer. Grammatical information expressed by in Western is typically found in suffixes. For example, the Finnish word means "in my house, too"
Derivation can also be quite complex. For example, Finnish has the root "logos", and consists of negative-""-----"related to"-"property", and means "the property of being unsystematic,
"unsystematicalness." The word has lots of stem changes, so Finnish is not the best example of an agglutinative language. Finno-Ugric languages Finnish Estonian Hungarian adpositions
Indo-European languages talossanikinep j rjestelm llisyysj rki logos causative frequentative nominalizer adessive Agglutination is used very heavily in some , such as , , , and , where one
word can contain enough to convey the meaning of what would be a complex in other languages. Native American languages Nahuatl Quechua Tz'utujil Kaqchikel K'iche morphemes
sentence Agglutination is also a common feature in the native language of the , the ancient tongue which has likely been spoken by the Euskaldun (native Basque speakers) for perhaps at
least 2000 years. Basque people Euskara Almost all of the also belong to this category. This enables them, especially , to form new words from simple base forms. Philippine languages
Filipino is also an agglutinating language, adding information such as , passive , past , degree and in the verb form. Common examples would be ( ), which combines causative, passive,
and conditional conjugations to arrive at the meaning "if (subject) had been made to work..." and ( ), which combines desire, negation, and past tense conjugations to mean "(subject) did
not want to eat". Japanese negation voice tense honorific causality hatarakaseraretaratabetakunakatta is another agglutinating language: the expression is pronounced as one word in
Turkish, but it can be translated into English as "one of those whom we could not make resemble the Australian people." Turkish Avustralyal la t ramad klar m zdan All are agglutinative. ,
, . is also another agglutinating language. Agglutination is used to very high degrees both in formal written forms (Example: Sevvaanam [Red Sky]) and in colloquial spoken forms of the
language (Example: sokkathangam [Pure Gold.]) Dravidian languages Kannada Telugu Malayalam Tamil is a with highly regular grammar and agglutinative word morphology. See
Esperanto constructed auxiliary language Esperanto vocabulary [] edit Extremes of agglutination It is possible to construct artificial extreme examples of agglutination, which have no real
use, but illustrate the theoretical capability of the grammar to agglutinate. This is not a question of "long words", since some languages permit limitless combinations with compound
words, negative clitics or such, which can be (and are) expressed with an analytic structure in actual usage. The English language, missing inflectional agglutination, can use only
derivational Latin agglutination, as in e.g. . Agglutinative languages often have more complex derivational agglutination than isolating languages, so they can do the same to a much larger
extent. For example, in Hungarian, a word such as , which means "for [the purposes of] undenationalizationability" can find actual use. Using inflectional agglutination, these can be
extended. For example, the official Guinness world record is Finnish "I wonder if even with his/her quality of not having been made unsystematized. It has the derived word as the root
and is lengthened with the inflectional endings . However, this word is grammatically unusual, since "also" is used only in negative clauses, but (question) only in question clauses.
antidisestablishmentarianism elnemzetietlen thetetlens gnekep j rjestelm llistytt m tt myydell ns k nk h nep j rjestelm llistytt m tt myys-ll ns k nk hn-k n-k A very popular Turkish
agglutination is which actually is one word, however, the question suffices ( in this case) are written separately and the word stands for .ekoslovakyal la t rabildiklerimizden
miydiniz?miydinizWere you one of those people whom we made resemble from Czechoslovakia? On the other hand, is a longer word and it does not surprise people as it contains no
spaces and the latter stands for . A recent addition to the claims has come with the introduction of the following word in Turkish , which means something like (someone who un-educates
people to make them unsuccessful). Guinness World Records may include this word in their book in the future. Afyonkarahisarl la t rabildiklerimizdenmi sinizcesineAs if you are one of the
people that we made resemble from Afyonkarahisarmuvaffakiyetsizle tiricile tiriveremeyebileceklerimizdenmi sinizcesine(you are talking) as if you are one of those which we can not
easily convert into an unsuccessful-person-maker