[] edit Case-control studies For establishing cause-and-effect relationships, e.g., between types of sexual behavior developing cervical cancer, no is more highly regarded than the
randomized . For medical interventions, the gold standard is the , a specific type of experiment. While such trials may be ideal for testing the efficacy of (what are hoped to be) beneficial
interventions, such as surgeries or drug treatments, there are many instances in which trials would be impossible, impractical, and/or unethical. For example, it would generally be seen
as unethical to randomly assign research subjects to be exposed to toxic substances in order to evaluate the substances effects. study design experiment double blind randomized
controlled trial such as death from cancer using randomized clinical trials or other controlled prospective studies requires that large populations be tracked for lengthy periods to observe
disease development. In the case of lung cancer this could involve 20 to 40 years, potentially longer than the careers of many epidemiologists. In addition, these studies, which generally
rely on government funding, are unlikely to be supported because of the low likelihood that the population will develop the disease.Studying infrequent eventsCase-control studies use
patients who already have a disease or other condition and look back to see if there are characteristics of these patients that differ from those who don t have the disease. The
case-control study provides a cheaper and quicker study of risk factors; if the evidence found is convincing enough, then resources can be allocated to more "credible" and comprehensive
studies. One major disadvantage of is that they do not give any indication of the absolute risk of the factor in question. For instance, a may tell you that a certain behavior may be
associated with a tenfold increased risk of death as compared with the control group. Although this sounds alarming, it would not tell you that the actual risk of death would change from
one in ten million to one in one million, which is quite a bit less alarming. For that information, data from outside the must be consulted.case-control studiescase-control studycase-control
study [] edit Study methodology [] edit Comparison with cross-sectional studies involve data collected at a single point in time, often using survey research methods. In epidemiology,
cross-sectional studies often involve secondary analysis of data collected for another purpose. Major sources of such data are often large institutions like the or the in the United States.
Such studies can cover study groups as large as the entire population of the United States, but others are small and geographically limited. Cross-sectional studies Census Bureau Centers
for Disease Control can contain individual-level data (one record per individual, for example, in national health surveys). Others, however, might only convey group-level information; that
is, no individual records are available to the researcher. Recent census data is not provided on individuals - in the UK individual census data is released only after a century. Instead data
are aggregated at the group level. For example, by zip code, urban zone, or even by states/provinces or country.Cross-sectional studies For example, although confirm that people who
consume large amounts of also show high rates of many other diseases, they cannot provide confirmation that the first variable is a cause and the second variable is its effect. The
primary difficulty is that most cross-sectional data have nothing to say about temporal order: which came first, the drinking or the depression? An important secondary difficulty is that
cross-sectional studies often fail to control for' confounding factors, third variables that affect or even determine the relationship between the putative cause and effect. cross-sectional
studies alcohol Another complication facing epidemiologists conducting secondary analysis of cross-sectional data is that often data are only available on an aggregate or "ecological"
basis. For example, statistics on infant mortality and low birth weight might not be available on a level below the city or county. Inferences about individuals cannot reliably be made from
ecological data; such inferences run afoul of the . For example, it might be true that there is no between infant mortality and family income at the city level, while still being true that
there is a strong relationship between infant mortality and family income at the individual level. All aggregate statistics are subject to compositional effects, so that what matters is not
only the individual-level relationship between income and infant mortality, but also the proportions of low, middle, and high income individuals in each city. ecological fallacy correlation
Because case-control studies are based on individual-level data, they do not exhibit the problems associated with aggregated cross-sectional data. In the study, the association is
determined for each individual pair, then aggregated. This provides a more specific analysis of the possible associations, and potentially determines more accurately which possible causes
are directly related to the effect being studied, and which are merely related by a common cause.case-controlcase-control_One benefit of cross-sectional studies is that they are
considered to be "hypothesis generating", such that clues to exposure/disease relationships can often be seen in these studies, and then other studies, such as case-control, cohort studies
or even sometimes randomized trials can be implemented to study this relationship. [] edit Problems with case-control studies They are rated as low quality, grade 3, on a standard scale
of medical evidence. [3] One problem is that of . The nature of case-control studies is such that it is difficult, often impossible, to separate the chooser from the choice. For example,
studies of road accident victims found that those wearing seat belts were 80% less likely to suffer serious injury or death in a collision, but data comparing rates for those collisions
involving two front-seat occupants of a vehicle, one belted and one unbelted, show a measured efficacy only around half that. Several case-control studies have shown a link between use
and reductions in head injury, but long-term trends - including from countries which have substantially increased helmet use through compulsion - show no such benefit. Analysis of the
studies shows substantial differences between the 'case' and control populations, with much of the measured benefit being due to fundamental differences between those who choose to
wear helmets voluntarily and those who do not. confounding bicycle helmet More controversially, a significant number of case-control studies identified a link between combined hormone
replacement therapy (HRT) and reductions in incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in women. Credible mechanisms were advanced as to why this link might be causal, and a
consensus arose that HRT was protective against CHD. The evidence was sufficiently compelling that a full clinical trial was initiated - and this indicated that the effect was both far smaller
and - combined HRT showed a small but significant in risk of CHD in the study population. Subsequent analysis has shown that the group of women opting for HRT were predominantly
from higher socio-economic groups and therefore had, on average, better diet and exercise habits. The studies had falsely attributed the benefits of these confounding factors to the
intervention itself. There have been similar controversies regarding links between vitamins and cancer; MMR and autism; antibiotics and asthma; cannabis and psychosis. All these have
been identified through small-scale case-control studies but fail to show any effect in whole population time series or other investigations. [4] in the opposite directionincrease [5] A
comparison with the tobacco/cancer link is instructive. Here the case-control studies pointed the way, but further confirmation was available in the form of time series showing rates of
lung cancer tracking levels of smoking in whole populations, and in the form of laboratory experiments on animals. A further problem is that case-control studies depend on correct and
honest reporting of the risk factor, which may be many years in the past or may be seen as socially (un)desirable. Case-control studies can be biased if the risk factor inquired about is
incorrectly reported. Recent research has shown that a substantial majority of highly cited case-control studies are subsequently contradicted or found to be substantially over-ambitious
when more rigorous investigations are conducted. As a result the following guidelines have been proposed when assessing case-control evidence : [6] Do not to contradiction. Do not
ignore contradictory evidence but try to understand the reasons behind the contradictions. turn a blind eye Do not be seduced by mechanism. Even where a plausible mechanism exists,
do not assume that we know everything about that mechanism and how it might interact with other factors. Suspend belief. Of the researchers defending observational studies, Pettiti
says this: "belief caused them to be unstrenuous in considering confounding as an explanation for the studies". Do not be seduced by your desire to prove your case. Maintain scepticism.
Question whether the factor under investigation can be that important; consider what other differences might characterise the case and control groups. Do not extrapolate results beyond
the limits of reasonable certainty (e.g. with grandiose forecasts of "lives saved"). Specifically, ask whether the was used to overreach.really the rare disease assumption Case-control
studies are a valuable investigative tool, providing rapid results at low cost, but caution should be exercised unless results are confirmed by other, more robust evidence.