Common types of work found in work-at-home schemes include: Stuffing envelopes Assembly of items of some type, such as , , or medical equipment crafts jewelry Data entry Making
phone calls Online surveys Sales of a product or service that is difficult or impossible to sell. This is often done in the form of a. pyramid scheme Some ads claim to offer a device that
makes passive sales calls, and the "employee" will be paid a commission of the sales. Some ads offer legitimate forms of work that really do exist, but exaggerate the salary, the effort
that will have to be put into the job, or the amount of work that will be available. Many such ads do not even specify the type of work that will be performed. Some similar schemes do
not advertise work that would be performed at home, but may instead offer occasional, sporadic work away from home for large payments, paired with a lot of free time. Some common
offers fitting this description are: - seeking to perform in movies and television commercials.Acting extras - Getting paid to shop and dine. While mystery shopping actually does exist, it
requires hard work, is paid close to minimum wage, and most importantly, does not require an up-front fee to join. Mystery Shopping The typical victim of a work-at-home scheme may
be: A employee of a legitimate job seeking an exit to his/her stressful lifestyle burned out An person seeking high-paying easy work unemployed An uneducated person with few or no
skills looking for a job with a good salary An employed person wanting to make extra money to supplement his/her regular income. , disabled persons, stay-at-home parents, and others
who cannot easily leave home in order to make a living. Senior citizens Those with busy schedules full of unpaid activities who wish to earn money in their spare time. Those with long or
tiresome commutes looking to remain at home and eliminate their travel to work. Someone who doesn't take the time to carefully investigate the industry, job and company. [] edit
Signs of a Work-at-Home Scheme Signs of a work-at-home scheme versus a legitimate job may include: Payment of fee is required prior to starting employment. According to the ,
under no circumstances should anyone be forced to pay a fee in order to obtain a job. No legitimate employer will require a fee be paid as a condition of starting work (except perhaps a
small amount for a ). Federal Trade Commission criminal background check Pay is too good to be true. Though there may be legitimate jobs in existence in which employees are paid to
perform the particular task in question, even possibly from home, in reality, they would be paid 2 wage that is fair for that type of work and level of education, not the $40 per hour or
$3000 per week that is typically offered in a work-at-home scheme. Employer seemingly will hire anyone, with no experience necessary and no qualifications. Legitimate employers will
only be interested in those who have the proper experience, skills, certification, and other qualifying factors, and will give at least some scrutiny to an applicant seeking employment. But
the perpetrator of a work-at-home scheme is only interested in the payment required to join. Company is little known, and does not seemingly have a customer base bringing them
revenue from which they can pay employees. Company does not appear to have a permanent location. Its address, phone number, and website appear to be centered around recruitment
of employees, not customers. In a forthcoming book, , telework researchers, Kate Lister and Tom Harnish, report that between 20% and 97% (depending on the website) of the
work-from-home and telecommuting jobs posted on the top Internet job boards represent some kind of scam. "These sites are some of the most visited places on the web. They're
household brands and people trust them. Yet, much of what they're peddling is pure junk," says Lister. "One of the top three job boards features 1,250 postings for a company that advises,
in all capital letters,Undress4Success The Naked Truth About Working From Home STOP EVERYTHING YOU ARE DOING RIGHT NOW THE NEXT FIVE MINUTES MAY CHANGE YOUR LIFE
INVEST $9.95 AND WE'LL SHOW YOU HOW TO . ..' "This is the kind of thing that gives work from home jobs a bad name. People looking for work at home jobs need to really do their
homework to avoid being stung. There are lots of ways to detect a scam but the simplest advice is to never pay for a job. That's just not the way it works," says Kate. [2] [] edit
Consequences The consequences of falling for a work-at-home scheme may be as follows: [3] : It may be only the initial fee to join, say $10, $20, or even $30, or more, for example. Or
it may be a lot more. Some scammers will run after receiving just this fee. Others will continue to ask for more in order for the promise of high pay to be fulfilled. Some will act on a
two-way street, actually issuing paychecks, all the while receiving payments of greater value in return, which in some cases may exceed tens of thousands of dollars. Yet in other cases,
the employer may obtain the victim's personal information and use it to commit fraud against the victim.Loss of money : Those with a real job may quit in hopes of a better one, only to
find they cannot get their original job back after they discover their dream job was only a .Loss of legitimate job hoax : Those who engage in sales of a faulty or otherwise controversial
product may be tarnishing their own name as the salesperson of such a worthless item.Damaged Reputation : Some victims may actually receive money. But at the same time, they may
be unknowingly breaking the law, on behalf of the perpetrator of the scheme, but will be fully legally responsible. Such violations may be criminal or civil in nature. In other cases, they
will not be committing any criminal acts, but they will end up framed in an investigation for the crimes of the perpetrator.Trouble with law : Victims will often invest huge amounts of time
with no pay in return. This is time that can be spent earning money at a legitimate job.Wasted time [] edit Combating work-at-home schemes Various law enforcement agencies work to
fight work-at-home schemes. In 2006, the (FTC) established , a federal and state law enforcement sweep that targets bogus business opportunity and work at home scams. The crackdown
involved more than 100 law enforcement actions by the FTC, the Department of Justice, the United States Postal Inspection Service, and law enforcement agencies in 11 states. Federal
Trade Commission Project False Hopes [4]