[] edit Minimum standards Lavatories per provided aboard vary considerably from to airline and to aircraft. On board aircraft, including , , and carriers, the normally accepted minimum
ratio of lavatories to is approximately 1 lavatory for every 50 passengers. However, in and , passengers may have access to multiple lavatories reserved primarily for their use. These
ratios of lavatories to passengers vary considerably, depending upon which airline is being used with some passengers having 1 lavatory for every 12 passengers. Additionally, many of
the larger airlines elect to equip their aircraft with larger lavatories for this particular group of passengers willing to pay higher fares. passenger aircraft airline aircraft North American
low-cost charter scheduled service airline passengers premium cabin business cabins first class long-haul Smaller and designed for very may not be equipped with lavatories. Recently,
many in North America have commenced the trend of eliminating the refilling of hand washing basin water tanks in order to reduce weight and reduce service costs, thus generating
increased airline derived through added savings due to reduction of aircraft and labor expenses. To facilitate sanitation, disinfectant hand-wipes are provided. commuter aircraft regional
aircraft short flights regional airlines potable labor profits fuel weight employee [] citation needed [] edit Types of aircraft lavatories An airplane lavatory viewed from the outside
Lavatories on modern aircraft are very expensive but include features that have required substantial upfront and long term by the world's airlines to design and develop. Airlines and
continue to investigate ways which for improving lavatory design to increase functionality and reduce costs of production, while maintaining adequate levels of safety. investments aircraft
manufacturers technology For this reason many modern lavatories are now no longer of the " blue water recirculated flush" variety. Instead lavatory have progressed to "vacuum flush"
technology to eliminate solid and liquid residue from the basin. Some of the advantages of "vacuum flush technology systems, from aircraft designers perspective, is the increased safety
attributes through less risk of waste "spill over" into recesses around the lavatories which can be difficult to protect. Additionally, "vacuum flush systems" are considered to be less
odor-inducing and substantially lighter which bare substantial fuel savings by way of reducing the need to carry excessive "blue recirculating water" as in the past. chemical toilet electric
manufacturers corrosive Other characteristics of the modern aircraft lavatories safety features include , waste receptacle portable fire containment extinguishing bottles and
"-smothering "flapper lids" fitted to the hand towel waste disposal recepticles. Over time these protective devices have been incorporated into aircraft lavatory designs due to fires that
have started when the careless smoker of the past or the clandestine cigarette smoker of the present has incorrectly disposed of their smoking material. smoke detectors halon oxygen
cigarette [] edit Trends in lavatories upon commercial aircraft This section does not any . cite references or sources Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and
removed. improve this section reliable sources Unverifiable (February 2009) Over time, aircraft lavatories have become substantially smaller and increasingly , with airlines having the
ability to easily move them to different locations within the cabin as seating configurations change. airlines, with the help of prodding, are becoming increasingly more willing to make at
least a portion of an aircraft's lavatories more accessible to , oversized, and wheelchair bound individuals. Due to the new airline security procedures in force since the of , it has become
increasing apparent new location and design considerations need to be addressed and researched in future aircraft projects such as the or other aircraft types. Airbus and some airlines
such as have pioneered the use of lower lobe lavatories on some of its longer range . modular North American government handicapped terrorist attacks 9-11 Boeing Y1 Airbus Lufthansa
cargo deck Airbus A340 airliners vd e Commercial air travel Airlines