by KMom Copyright 1998 KMom@Vireday.Com. All rights reserved. :DISCLAIMERThe information on this website is not intended and should not be construed as medical advice. Consult
your health provider.This particular web section is designed to present more than one view of a controversial subject, pro and con, It should be re-emphasized thatnothing herein should be
considered medical advice. Contents References All About GD Food Plans It is important to emphasize that Women with gd are often given a plan as if it is 'The Ten Commandments
written in stone, and are shocked when they compare their plan with others' and see some of the differences. The similarities generally outweigh the differences, but the differences can
be glaring. Remember that when you read this, you are seeing only a few possible versions of gd food plans. ; discuss your own individual needs with a Registered Dietician (see the
section on Treatment and Care Issues for a discussion about dealing with Registered Dieticians). As we larger women well know, one size does fit all, either in clothes or in food plans!NO
standard gd food plan is currently available.Every registered dietician you see will recommend something slightly different.Do not take this plan as a medical prescriptionnot As far as GD
food plans go, they are usually not strongly restrictive or oppressive. It is extremely vital to eat every 3-4 hours to keep blood sugars even, and to eat smaller, more frequent meals
instead of larger, more infrequent meals so that your insulin response is not overwhelmed at once. You will not go hungry on this plan, but the adjustment to smaller meals/more often is
one that is sometimes difficult. To some, it may feel like they are constantly eating, yet never quite satisfied. Others dislike the regimentation of sometimes having to eat when not hungry
or to go hungry at times when they feel like eating. In fact, for some women, the idea of such rigid food scheduling is often the most difficult aspect of the plan. It just takes time to get
used to the new routine but it will become easier over time.Mostly they are just a different pattern of eating, with an emphasis on careful food combinations and timing. so that your
glycemic response is slowed down and the energy lasts longer; it is also important to limit how many carbohydrates you are eating at one time. Overloading with too many carbs at once
is a typical problem that needs to be solved. Most people have too many carbs at one meal without realizing it and overload their systems, instead of spreading out the same intake over
several smaller meals and snacks. It's important to realize that people can eat a perfectly healthy food intake, yet still schedule it and combine it in such a way that interferes with good
blood sugar control! So although your overall intake over the day is important, what's more important is how you schedule and spread out intake.It is vitally important to eat proteins with
your carbohydrates Some General Guidelines on Food Planning Generally speaking, if you compare a lot of plans, some general rules tend to be consistent. Remember that these vary,
and you should consult your own provider for guidelines specific to your situation, but that these are generally recommended by most RDs. Further information can be obtained from
brochures from the American Diabetes Association; Kmom highly recommends reading these.can Some foods should generally be avoided. Obviously, sweets of any kind are excluded
Some RDs spell out every little forbidden food in excruciating detail, but we will forego listing all the forbidden foods here and give ourselves credit for some intelligence. If in doubt, read
the labels. Any food that has sugar (or a sugar variation, usually ending in -ose) listed as one of the top ingredients is probably not a wise choice. Checking the number of carbs on the
label will also give you a lot of information; 1 serving of carbohydrate is equal to approximately 15 grams.In general, you want to avoid concentrations of more than 30-45 grams of carbs
at one meal or snack. It should be noted that non-pregnant diabetics consume sugar and sweets in limited amounts; for them, a carb is a carb and as long as intake and calories are not
excessive and adequate nutritional intake is followed, sugar and sweets can be part of their overall intake. However, for pregnant women with glucose intolerance, sugar should not be
part of their intake. Pregnancy hormones cause them to be too sensitive to sweets, plus control during pregnancy has to be more strict than non-pregnant diabetics must aim for. So
sweets during pregnancy should be strictly avoided.canmuch Honey and other substitutes are just as bad for glycemic response as sugar and cannot be substituted. A few books like the
series promote using foods sweetened with apple juice-concentrate or honey, etc. as a healthful alternative to sugar-laden' foods, but this is FALSE from a diabetic standpoint. Foods
sweetened with applejuice, honey or molasses, etc. are just as bad for glycemic response as sugar and be used with gd.What to Expectshould not Other forbidden foods that are less
obvious include fruit juices and cold cereals. It doesn't matter whether the fruit juice is sweetened or unsweetened; most people's glycemic response to both kinds of fruit juice is so swift
and strong that it's essentially the same as drinking a regular soda-pop. A few dieticians will permit women to use a bit of fruit juice; most will not. Cold cereals, also, are generally not
recommended, even if they are not sugar-coated. They are very carb-intensive and provoke a strong response, so they should usually be avoided. Some people can tolerate them, but
they cause problems for most and so are generally not permitted. Hot cereals, on the other hand (like regular long-cooking oatmeal), generally do cause the same quick rise and be
consumed, as long as careful attention is paid to portion-control. Muffins are also generally to be avoided, since they are extremely carb-intensive, considering their flour, fruit, high sugar
content. It's best to steer clear of them most of the time, though a few people be able to tolerate them with great care.notcanandmay Foods that you should be very cautious about using
include bagels, croissants, white rice, some rolls, baked beans, some peanut butters that use sugar, and some spaghetti sauces that use sugar. These foods are generally very
carb-intensive and tend to cause quick spikes in bG in many people. Some people can tolerate some of these foods, others cannot tolerate any. Be very careful if you try them, and be
sure to read the labels for carb-content carefully. One bagel may equal as many as 45-50+ grams of carbs, which is the equivalent of more than 3 pieces of bread! That's a whole meal's
carbs in one food. Pasta and brown rice can be used, but remember to monitor carb content and portion size carefully. Overcooking rice and pasta adds to their carb content, so try to
undercook them a bit, and use high-fiber (whole-wheat) versions whenever possible. Long-strand pastas tend to be better to use than short pastas, ironically! Look for hidden sugars in
certain breads and canned foods, and choose fresh foods over refined or canned foods whenever possible. Remember also that different people respond differently to certain foods than
others. Some people can tolerate brown rice or potatoes just fine, while others find their bG spikes drastically after one of these foods. Some people can tolerate pizza, but most people
have a sharp bG rise afterwards. The only way to know about YOUR response to these trigger foods' is to take careful notes about what you ate if you have a high reading (see the web
section on Troubleshooting High Readings) and look for a pattern. Other trigger foods can include bananas, dried fruits like raisins, potatoes (esp. instant mashed potatoes), instant noodle
soups, grapes, etc. Become keenly aware of your own personal trigger' foods. Remember that (and veggies to a much lesser extent). When you eat a meal, you have to , or add up the
total number of carbs in all of your foods . The general guideline of consuming 30-45 or so carbohydrates per meal does not mean 45g (3 slices) of bread and then adding milk or a fruit; it
means of your fruit, milk, veggies, and starches must add up to that total instead (say, 2 pieces of bread plus a glass of milk). This is why it is important to read labels and be very aware
of the carb content of typical foods! A generalized guide of how many carbs are found in which food types is found below. It is helpful to know these if you want a bit more flexibility in
your food plan.carbohydrates refer to dairy foods, fruits,andstarchescount carbohydratescombinedallvery are also an important thing to consider. Some dieticians will tell you never to
mix fruit and milk, because they are both fairly simple carbs that cause quick spikes in bG. Others will allow it, as long as the total does not exceed 30-45g and protein is consumed with
it. Most dieticians feel it is important to , since the protein tends to slow things down and make them more even; your bG spikes less and is available as energy longer (thus preventing a
dip later). A few dieticians do not require protein foods with small amounts of carbs, such as at snacks, but do want it there for larger amounts of carbs, like in meals. Ask your dietician
about her recommendations.Food combinationsinclude a protein food whenever you have a carb food A protein food at the bedtime snack, however, is generally QUITE important, since
you will be going without eating for quite a long time. Milk, starches, and protein are important then, since the combination provides an excellent grouping of short-term and long-term
energy sources. This should be able to get you through the night without a huge dip in the middle and a strong spike in the early morning. However, this should be tested through the use
of morning urine ketone tests to be sure. A few women need to add a serving of milk at about 3 a.m. in order to keep their bG even throughout the night, especially those first diagnosed
with gd who have been experiencing a large amount of ketones. (See the web section on Ketone Testing.) It is important to keep bG even throughout the day and night! It is not just the
highs and lows that you want to avoid, but also the between these.veryswings Glycemic Index Information for the Curious All carbs are NOT equal; some provoke stronger and faster
blood sugar rises than others. When referring to an individual's response, these are called trigger foods. A number of years ago, a list of many foods was put together, and a group of test
subjects (both diabetic and non-diabetic) were gathered. Their response to each food was tested and then averaged, and a number from 1-100 (or in some cases, higher) was assigned.
This is a , and its purpose is to show how certain foods cause an average group of people to react. A food that has a very high number attached to it can be expected to be a trigger food
for many people, causing their bG to have a sudden fast rise, or to spike out-of-proportion to the amount of food eaten. It should be remembered, though, that individual response varies
and some people can tolerate foods that are high on the index; close observation of your response to each food is important.glycemic indexown There were some surprising lessons
learned from glycemic indices; it was discovered that table sugar was not the worst food around for causing sudden steep spikes (although it up there!). From this, it was found that some
(non-pregnant) diabetics can actually have some sugar, on occasion; that they do not have to be forbidden it for the rest of their lives. Since sugar does not offer any nutrition in exchange
for its calories, it is not a food that is recommended often, but it can be eaten with care by some diabetics, as long as it is used of other carbs instead of in addition to them. The bad
news, of course, is that . . But it is comforting to know that if you ever develop type II diabetes, sugar may not have to be stricken from you life forever, just used very cautiously and
with full recognition of the nutritional and caloric tradeoffs involved.isin placethis is not true in pregnancyin pregnancy, the hormonal influence is just too strong, and women with gd need
to avoid sugar and related products completely A glycemic index can help many people plan their food intake more carefully, though it must be noted that each individual's response will
not match the index exactly. It is just a general guide, based on average responses from a group of people. It should also be noted that not all glycemic indices came up with exactly the
same results. Slight differences appear between indices, probably because of differences in the groups tested. But general trends can still be detected from these indices, and danger
foods' highlighted and watched for. For example, a food with a surprisingly high index is cooked carrots. In many diabetics, this seemingly innocent food can cause a strong and quick spike
in bG. So even though this food is technically allowed in gd, you may want to give it wide berth or test your own response to it gingerly. Other common trigger foods are white rice,
bagels, etc. as discussed above. For a more detailed list of common trigger foods', see the website listed below. Glycemic indices add too much confusion for some people, but others find
them immensely helpful. If you desire more information about them or about specific foods, try the website, . It also contains links that may be helpful in your search for diabetes
information. http://www.anndeweesallen.com/ Caloric Intake: The Debate about Larger Women Currently, there is a big debate as to how many calories are appropriate, especially for
larger women. Should we consume fewer calories simply because of our pre-pregnancy size? The Recommended Daily Allowance for most pregnant women (average-sized) is about 2400
calories. The tendency in a lot of research is to recommend about a 1/3 reduction in calories for obese gestational diabetics, which usually works out to a recommendation of about
1500-1800 calories per day, depending on pre-pregnancy weight, activity levels, weight gain to that point in the pregnancy, etc. However, in practice, this recommendation does not often
seem to be followed as often anymore. Most large gestational diabetics end up with a prescription for about 2000-2300 calories. This is probably a more sensible recommendation (1500
calories seems like a ridiculous level for a pregnant woman, and the safety of this practice has NOT been established so it is currently not recommended by ACOG), but the issue remains
to be settled definitively. Researchers who advocate restricting calories have several concerns. When average-sized women are pregnant, for example, part of their weight gain is to lay
down a layer of fat to provide energy during childbirth and breastfeeding. Since larger women already have access to fat storage, they not need the same number of calories. However,
pregnancy should be used as a time for weight. Any woman who is given a restrictive diet with the purpose of reducing weight during pregnancy should . Although few providers nowadays
insist on this, there are still a few around who do. One woman was told she lose 40 Ibs. during pregnancy, or else. Others have been told that unless they keep their weight gain within
10-15 Ibs. (or gain weight), or unless they stay under 'x' total amount of pounds (i.e. 200), they will have to have a c-section or may even die. This is ; these are blatant examples of
fat-phobic doctors whose care will NEVER be fair or unbiased. Unfortunately, these stories true. The only proper course of action in these cases is tomaynotlosingfind a new
providermustnoludicrousareGET A NEW PROVIDER. Some providers who are not obviously size-phobic do have what be legitimate concerns about maternal caloric intake, although it's
important to remember that nothing is proven conclusively and the safety of restriction is not established either. There is some concern that a large maternal weight gain can cause more
insulin resistance problems and more macrosomia (too-large babies). Some studies seem to support this while others do not; the picture is unclear. So some researchers advocate limiting
pregnancy intake in larger women in hopes of keeping down weight gain. However, this ignores the fact that many larger women gain little or nothing in pregnancy, regardless of healthy
intake, perhaps because of metabolic changes in pregnancy (Kmom gained 5 Ibs. or less in each pregnancy with normal caloric levels; babies are healthy and fine). On the other hand,
there a subgroup of larger women who tend to gain a lot in pregnancy, often those who are closer to average-size, are chronic yo-yo dieters, had a recent large weight loss, or who have
complications in pregnancy such as pre-eclampsia. A very large weight gain such as these women tend to experience could indeed potentially cause problems.couldis The problem is that
there is no sure way to predict who will gain too much weight and who will not. Routine limitation of caloric intake in all obese women could cause problems for the many larger women
who do not usually gain much weight in pregnancy. Dieticians and doctors who routinely ASSUME that larger women will automatically gain too much weight in pregnancy (and so must be
restricted) should be challenged . Perhaps caloric restriction should instead be based more on individual circumstances (history of large weight gain in past pregnancy, strong history of
yo-yo diets or recent large weight loss, etc.) rather than a blanket prescription based solely on a woman's size and a provider's assumptions.strongly Many researchers contend that large
women only need to be provided with enough calories to keep them above the level of ketosis (burning fat for fuel, which may create undesirable by-products for babies), but few examine
the long-term effects of this near-ketosis on the fetus.Others found a higher rate of needing insulin at caloric intakes close to that of average-sized women, so they recommend lower
caloric levels. This possibly be a justifiable reason for lower levels (though more research is needed to confirm this, plus assure the safety of the approach), but just how low is
appropriate () is not well-established. A number of approaches have been proposed.mightif atall Some researchers propose that large women's intake be limited to 12-15 kcal/kg of
mother's pre-pregnant weight. For a woman who is 250 Ibs., this amounts to between 1400-1700 calories per day---! This is a very grave restriction. Other researchers propose that larger
women be given 35 kcal/kg of their weight. Assuming that 120 Ibs. is the so-called ideal weight for a woman who is about 250 Ibs., this would result in a caloric intake of 1800-1900
calories; better but still restrictive. It used to be routine for women of size to be given a blanket caloric allowance of 1800 calories, often with minimal levels of protein and calcium. Some
of these women have anecdotally reported higher rates of pre-eclampsia, though it is difficult to distinguish how much of this is due to insufficient nutritional intake and how much is due
to the well-established fact that gestational diabetics have somewhat higher rates of pre-eclampsia.while pregnantidealdo It's important to note that Dr. Tom Brewer showed in a number
of studies that pre-eclampsia be related to inadequate intakes of protein and other nutrients, though some dispute his research. Other studies have pointed to inadequate protein as a
problem in diabetic pregnancies as well. Jovanovic-Peterson and Peterson noted that "Diabetic women may be more vulnerable to protein malnutrition than non-diabetic women during
gestation" (Diabetes/Metabolism Reviews, 1996). Confounding the research picture is the fact that while some studies have shown that higher levels of calcium may help prevent some
pre-eclampsia, a recent (very large) study found it did not. So drawing conclusions about nutritional concerns is difficult and often based on contradictory studies.can Since it's difficult to
know what the most optimal amounts of nutrients are, caution should be used in approaches that advocate strong restrictions of calories because it may be difficult to get in the proper
nutrient levels, thus possibly causing complications. Dr. Brewer's studies on pre-eclampsia showed that the old approach to preventing pre-eclampsia through strong caloric restriction,
low protein levels and use of diuretics actually made the occurrence and severity of pre-eclampsia , not better. It provides a lesson in caution in approaching the use of caloric restriction
for gd. Caloric restriction be helpful, but again it cause more problems than it solves. More research into its short-term long-term safety and efficacy is needed before anything like this
should be adopted.exactlyworsecouldcouldand Some researchers have already experimented with strong restrictions of caloric intake for large women with gd; one experiment limited
large women to as little as 1200 calories! However, this experiment put the women into ketosis (spilling ketones, a substance found in some studies to be harmful to the baby) within a
short period of time and was therefore stopped. Other studies have found that restricting intake by about 1/3 (to about 1500-1800 calories) lower the rates of macrosomia somewhat
without causing ketosis. Again, the long-term safety of this approach has been established yet, but it's an interesting research avenue to pursue. However, it is too soon to recommend this
universally for all larger pregnant women. A number of troubling questions remain to be answered about this approach.---while pregnantdidnot The advantage of these restricted-calorie
diets is that of them have helped reduce the levels of insulin needed by women (or prevented its use for some), and have reduced macrosomia rates in women. However, the effects were
certainly not universal, and the risks not adequately examined. What is the cost to the baby of such restriction? If the only measurement of 'success' of treatment is in the lack of weight
gain by the mother or a smaller size from the baby , then the research design is inadequate. Very few studies that examine restricted caloric intake in obese women truly examine the
issues adequately and many suffer from significant prejudicial assumptions. The research quality in this area is definitely lacking.somesomesomewhatsomewithout any study of the
procedure's long-term safety for baby or mother How much less macrosomic are these babies, and is the reduction really significant enough to justify such radical treatment? How
effective is the treatment in women of varying degrees of obesity? What is the effect of caloric restriction on the babies of the women who would not have had macrosomic babies at
normal caloric levels? Is the treatment also increasing the rate of SGA [small-for-gestational-age] babies, as too-strict levels of prophylactic insulin have been found to do? Does the lower
rate of macrosomia translate into decreased operative deliveries and lower rates of shoulder dystocia? [A number of studies have reduced the rates of macrosomia somewhat without
decreasing the rates of c-sections or birth trauma, and several others have reduced macrosomia but by such small total amounts that the overall benefit is doubtful. It is unclear at this
stage whether macromsomia is really a true burden enough to justify such radical treatment and whether the treatments currently used are really cost-effective.] Furthermore, is anyone
doing long-term follow-up on the babies of women whose caloric intake was severely limited to see what the long-term effects of caloric restriction might be? Most studies stop at birth
and measure their success solely on the basis of whether baby birth weight has been decreased (or mother's weight gain decreased). Studies urgently need to follow up on whether these
babies had a better birth outcome and whether they have any long-term deficits associated with tampering with genetic size or introducing levels of near-ketosis. Also, has anyone studied
whether caloric restriction in the mother inhibits breastfeeding supply and breastfeeding rates in the restricted pregnancies? What caloric recommendations are they making for women
who do breastfeed post-partum and on what do they base these recommendations (La Leche does not recommend caloric intake under 1800K for breastfeeding women; if women have
been restricted to 1500K during pregnancy while the body prepares for breastfeeding, what effect does this have on mother and baby and breastfeeding rates?) As far as Kmom can tell,
the issue of caloric restrictions possible effect on breastfeeding and supply issues has been by researchers in this field.totally ignored In addition, it is not clear that infants above 9 Ibs.
are a problem that MUST be resolved. While it is clear that babies of diabetic mothers are larger because of maternal hyperglycemia and resulting fetal hyperinsulinemia (and that cases
to be prevented, not all 9 Ib. babies are a result of this. Larger women have larger babies, and this is often just as genetic as taller women having longer babies. In diabetes research
there is a tendency to treat all babies above the 90th percentile in weight as abnormal and a clinical issue screaming for attention, but the same concern is not present for babies above
the 90th percentile in length, suggesting that for researchers, the extreme concern over reducing fetal birth weight may be a subtle form of sizism. babies are going to be born naturally at
and above 9 Ibs., and unless strong evidence of maternal hyperglycemia and resulting asymmetrical fetal growth is present, the size of these babies may simply be more of a reflection of
genetics than of a diabetic problem that needs to be solved. But at present, all babies above 9 Ibs. are treated as a failure of inadequately strict treatment instead of possibly a variation
on the norm and the result simply of possible genetic heritage. More effort should be made to distinguish between asymmetric and normal-growth macrosomic babies and their
implications for birthing issues.allsomethesereally do need)someSome Larger babies be more difficult to deliver, but often this is a reflection of the doctor's delivery restrictions rather
than an inevitable result of the baby's size, and many babies of this size and larger are delivered without problems when the mother is allowed to labor naturally and with efficient
positioning. Shoulder dystocia (where the shoulders get stuck) is a legitimate area of concern for babies of diabetic pregnancies because of possible asymetric fetal growth
(shoulders/trunk too big), but many babies of well-controlled gd pregnancies are around 9 Ibs. without having asymmetric growth. A baby that is around 9 Ibs. may be that way naturally
and does not necessarily reflect an abnormal growth pattern that will cause problems getting 'stuck' at birth. Besides, shoulder dystocia occurs quite frequently in babies under 9 Ibs. as
well, and again, the doctor's delivery restrictions are often a contributing factor that goes unrecognized and unblamed. The point is that baby size and birth trauma is a much more
complicated issue than gd researchers make it out to be, and while of it is certainly a problem and preventable, not all of it may be the burning issue that must be treated at
cost.cansomeany Higher rates of macromia in gd moms an important issue and one that does respond to various therapies, though again, researchers are notoriously lax in establishing
their long-term safety and the overall benefits and cost-effectiveness of this approach. However, the all-out push for ALL gd babies to be between 7-8 Ibs. may be unfounded and sizist,
and This is an important point. Frankly, extreme efforts to prevent baby from being above the 90th percentile smack of putting babies on a diet before they are even born--an abhorrent
concept---and is a skewed view of statistics. Being outside of the norm does not make something harmful, it just makes it unusual. It is true that babies of diabetic pregnancies that
develop in asymmetric patterns of growth or become abnormally large are an important issue and need to be prevented. But babies that simply represent the upper limits of normality
with normal growth patterns do not necessarily represent an occurrence that must be prevented at any cost, no matter what the intervention. This is an issue poorly addressed in the
endocrinolgy and obstetrics fields, known for size-phobia, where any baby above 9 Ibs. is often seen as a failure of control or insufficiently strong treatment. The whole issue of
Large-for-Gestational-Age babies who demonstrate normal growth patterns and whose mothers demonstrated excellent glycemic control during pregnancy should be re-examined and in
retrospective, many could be seen simply as a variation of normal rather than a pathological presentation.issomewhatdoes not address the possible harm that might occur if a baby that is,
geneticallymeantto be around 9 Ibs. is forced through abnormal means to be smaller than nature intended.extremelyany The issues of efficacy, importance, and long-term safety must be
addressed before use of caloric restriction for obese gestational diabetics can be adopted as a universal recommendation, though research should continue on the issue. The American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) says that '" (ACOG Bulletin #200, 1994). A number of other sources also recommend caution in approaching hypocaloric diets for obese
women, including Gunderson in her 1997 article in Diabetes Care () and Hachey in his 1994 article in American Journal of Clinical Nutrition (). The Journal of the American Dietetic
Association in its 1995 article on nutritional management in gd notes thatwhile maternal weight gain and fetal macrosomia may be decreased, the safety of this approach has not been
established, and thus it is not recommended'caloric restriction during pregnancy even in obese women must be viewed with caution, since its effects may pose some risk to the

fetus" more caution is necessary in using fat- and energy-modified diets to treat women with gestational diabetes mellitus""Risk of high levels of blood ketones and risk of sacrificing
maternal nutritional status are higher in women who consume hypocaloric diets." In the meantime, what recommendations should be made to the large mom who has gd? Protocols will
depend on the philosophy of the provider, but at this time most providers do not seem to be practicing extreme restriction, though small restrictions do seem to be common. Intake under
1800 calories generally seems to be frowned upon in practice currently; in Kmom's opinion, it is strongly questionable whether <1800 calories is enough and she has strong concerns
whether this is safe for mother or baby. , which seems more satisfactory. Pregnant women of average size are generally told to eat about 2400 calories per day, but since we as larger
women may not need extra fat stores, it makes sense to Kmom that a caloric intake of about 2200 calories is sufficient, . However, it must be re-emphasized that this is only Kmom's
opinion and that she is not a doctor or registered dietician.non-medicalMost larger women with gd are currently being given plans of about 2100-2300 calories by registered dieticiansas
long as the mother is not spilling ketones in her urine or losing weight In the interests of comparison and discussion, a sample program is listed below. It is about 2100 calories and was
given by a real registered dietician in 1997. It is NOT intended to be a medical prescription or advice, just one more source of information about the subject. If a mother has problems
controlling her blood sugars on a program such as this below, one option to consider be to change slightly the amount, distribution, or type of carbohydrate in the plan (for example, to
decrease to 40% carbohydrate and substitute a bit more protein and fat to compensate, etc.), but ANY decision must be made in consultation with a health provider and a registered
dietician since the issues involved are complex and often involve delicate balances. Exercise therapy, when appropriate, may also help changes in dietary therapies as well.may Taken
from the American Diabetes Association's "Exchange Lists for Meal Planning". - 15 grams carbohydrate, 3 grams protein, 0-1 grams fat, 80 caloriesStarches - 15 grams carbohydrate, 0
grams protein, 0 grams fat, 60 caloriesFruits - 12 grams carbohydrate, 8 grams of proteinDairy Skim milk = 0-3 grams fat, 90 calories Low-fat milk = 5 grams fat, 120 calories Whole
milk = 8 grams fat, 150 calories - 0 grams carbohydrate, 7 grams proteinProtein Very lean = 0-1 grams fat, 35 calories Lean = 3 grams fat, 55 calories Medium-fat = 5 grams fat, 75
calories High-fat = 8 grams fat, 100 calories - 0 grams carbohydrate, 0 grams protein, 5 grams fat, 45 caloriesFats - 5 grams carbohydrate, 2 grams protein, 0 grams fat, 25,
caloriesVegetables *Note that certain vegetables are actually counted as starches, due to their carb content (corn, peas, etc.). Also, 3 regular vegetables together total 15 g of carbs, or
one whole serving, which can throw off your totals. Limit your intake to 1-2 veggies at a time, except for salad veggies like lettuce or spinach. For examples of each food type and its
portion size, see the ADA Exchange List booklet. , since different diet programs and different food programs use differing standards. For example, in some programs, 1/3 c. of cottage
cheese is the standard size, in others 1/2 c. cottage cheese is listed as the serving size. In the ADA booklet, 1/4 c. of cottage cheese is one serving. It is beyond the scope of this faq to list
portion sizes; be sure to consult your RD or the ADA booklet for this.Serving sizes are extremely important to note One Sample Plan: About 2100 Calories 120 g protein; about 40-50%
of calories from carbs *Exact calorie totals will vary based on lowfat vs. higher fat dairy and protein choices; this plan assumes the use of lowfat milk (1%) and medium-fat proteins
(such as chicken, turkey, cottage cheese, eggs, etc.) on average.