More Images The Original ThinkGeek Annoy-a-tron would be useless against an army of , but it's very effective at disturbing that guy in the sales department or your "friend" down the
hall. With its thin design and embedded magnet for easy hiding, the Annoy-a-tron can be placed in a variety of locations. Select one of the three sound choices (2 kHz, 12 kHz, or
alternating) and push the switch to the on position. Place it in a proper hiding spot and let the "fun" begin. A devious hide and seek game Snowbots The Annoy-a-tron generates a short
(but very annoying, hence the name) beep every few minutes. Your unsuspecting target will have a hard time timing the location of the sound because the beeps will vary in intervals
ranging from 2 to 8 minutes. The 2kHz sound is generically annoying enough, but if you really really want to aggravate somebody, select the 12 kHz sound. Trust us. The higher frequency
and slight electronic noise! built into that soundbyte will make a full-grown Admin wonder where his packets are. 3 simple steps. Hide it. Muahahaha... Assuming you have done your
part in selecting a suitable hiding location for the Annoy-a-tron, it will do its part to drive your co-workers slowly mad with its short and seemingly random beeps. And when someone does
locate the Annoy-a-tron, they're really not going to know what it is - which is almost as much fun as watching them search for it. Muahaha. The Annoy-a-tron takes one CR2032 battery
(included) and measures approximately: 2.5" x 1.25" x .3". It will run for 3 to 4 weeks on a single battery. Some Recommendations: Don't hide it inside of food (the chemicals in a
burrito are known to be quite destructive to electrical components) You should probably avoid the area near your local BOFH (we understand that most likely are the local BOFH, but still
please take note)you Yes, we realize you could buy a dozen and hide them all inside someone's office (oh, did we say that out loud?) Please reserve the use of the Annoy-a-tron for
deserving subjects only (we'll leave it up to you to determine who qualifies) Note: Please remember to remove the small plastic tab underneath battery.* Not convinced of the
Annoy-a-tron's evil powers? Read this letter we received from a satisfied customer and be enlightened: Dear friends at thinkgeek.com, I recently acquired the "Annoy-A-Tron from your
web site, Actually, I acquired two, thinking that perhaps two devices might be necessary to truly splinter the minds of my friends and co-workers. How woefully did I underestimate this
powerful tool. I have watched this simple device transform an (until-now) mild-mannered colleague into a spitting, cussing, paranoid lunatic. He has ordered all of the staff he supervises
(not a small number) to locate the source of the dread beeping before doing anything else (but since they are in on the prank, they haven't been much help). So he waits, white-knuckles
gripping the edge of his desk, anticipating the next beep. He has set a timer on his computer to track the duration between beeps. It hasn't been much help. My favorite quote so far,
nearly bursting that vein on his temple as he shouted it: "That beep has been F***ING with me for HOURS now." He has called the facilities department to schedule a maintenance worker
to investigate. He speculates that "they" might be doing air-quality testing in the building. This beep must be some device in the ducts detecting dangerous levels of asbestos in the air. Or
worse. Radon? Aerosolized mercury? Legionella spores? The beep means something. What does the beep mean? Is it a warning? It sounds urgent, doesn't it? It's telling us to do
something. But what? Replace a battery? Call the authorities? Evacuate the premises? Scrub ourselves with disinfectant and put on haz-mat suits and call our families to give them our
tearful goodbyes? I imagine that soon he will begin to take things apart. He will methodically dismantle all of the electrical devices in his office, creating an unusually precise metaphor
for what is happening in his psyche. Iam reminded what a thin and fragile thread keeps us attached to sanity. Today, this tiny little device helped me break a co-worker's mind, and T
thank you for the sinfully pleasurable schadenfreude. My best to you, John Seattle, WA Your fellow smart masses also bought.