Critically describe, appraise, & illuminate an object. Exploits highly developed expertise on subject of interest. Can inspire others to more insightful efforts. Dependent on small number of
experts, making evaluation susceptible to subjectivity, bias, and corruption. Adversary Present the pro & cons of an issue. Ensures balances presentations of represented perspectives
Can discourage cooperation, heighten animosities. Client-centered Specific concerns & issues Foster understanding of activities & how they are valued in a given setting & from a variety
of perspectives. Practitioners are helped to conduct their own evaluation. Low external credibility, susceptible to bias in favor of participants. Note. Adapted and condensed primarily
from House (1978) and Stufflebeam & Webster (1980). Pseudo-evaluation and public relations studies are based on an objectivist epistemology from an elite perspective. Although both of
these approaches seek to misrepresent value interpretations about some object, they go about it a bit differently. obtained through politically controlled studies is released or withheld to
meet the special interests of the holder.controlled Politically Information information is used to paint a positive image of an object regardless of the actual situation. Neither of these
approaches is acceptable evaluation practice, although the seasoned reader can surely think of a few examples where they have been used. Public relations Objectivist, elite,
quasi-evaluation As a group, these five approaches represent a highly respected collection of disciplined inquiry approaches. They are considered quasi-evaluation approaches because
particular studies legitimately can focus only on questions of knowledge without addressing any questions of value. Such studies are, by definition, not evaluations. These approaches can
produce characterizations without producing appraisals, although specific studies can produce both. Each of these approaches serves its intended purpose well. They are discussed roughly
in order of the extent to which they approach the objectivist ideal. is the best approach for determining between . The potential problem with using this as an evaluation approach is that
its highly controlled and stylized may not be sufficiently responsive to the dynamically changing needs of most human service programs. Experimental research causal relationships
variables methodology (MISs) can give detailed information about the dynamic operations of complex programs. However, this information is restricted to readily data usually available at
regular intervals. Management information systems quantifiable are familiar to just about anyone who has attended school, served in the military, or worked for a large company. These
programs are good at comparing individuals or groups to selected norms in a number of subject areas or to a set of standards of performance. However, they only focus on testee
performance and they might not adequately sample what is taught or expected.programs Testing approaches relate outcomes to prespecified objectives, allowing judgments to be made
about their level of attainment. Unfortunately, the objectives are often not proven to be important or they focus on outcomes too narrow to provide the basis for determining the value of
an object.-based Objectives is a quasi-evaluation approach because content analysis judgments need not be based on value statements. Instead, they can be based on knowledge. Such
content analyses are not evaluations. On the other hand, when content analysis judgments are based on values, such studies are evaluations. Content analysis Objectivist, mass,
quasi-evaluation is popular with because it is intended to provide an accurate accounting of results that can improve the of and . However, this approach quickly can turn practitioners and
into adversaries when implemented in a heavy-handed fashion. Accountability constituents quality products services consumers Objectivist, elite, true evaluation studies are designed to
provide a knowledge base for making and defending decisions. This approach usually requires the close between an evaluator and decision-maker, allowing it to be susceptible to and
-oriented Decision collaboration corruption bias_provide general guidance and direction on broad issues by identifying and assessing potential of competing . The drawback is these
studies can be corrupted or subverted by the politically motivated actions of the participants. Policy studies costs and benefits policies Objectivist, mass, true evaluation studies are used
to judge the relative merits of goods and services based on generalized needs and values, along with a comprehensive range of effects. However, this approach does not necessarily help
practitioners improve their work, and it requires a very good and credible evaluator to do it well.-oriented Consumer Subjectivist, elite, true evaluation programs are based on self-study
and peer review of organizations, programs, and personnel. They draw on the insights, experience, and expertise of qualified individuals who use established guidelines to determine if the
applicant should be approved to perform specified functions. However, unless performance-based standards are used, attributes of applicants and the processes they perform often are
overemphasized in relation to measures of outcomes or effects./ Accreditation certification studies use the highly refined skills of individuals intimately familiar with the subject of the
evaluation to critically characterize and appraise it. This approach can help others see programs in a new light, but it is difficult to find a qualified and unbiased connoisseur. Connoisseur
Subjectivist, mass, true evaluation The approach focuses on drawing out the pros and cons of issues through quasi-. This helps ensure a balanced presentation of different perspectives on
the issues, but it is also likely to discourage later and heighten animosities between contesting parties if winners and losers emerge.adversary controversial legal proceedings cooperation
studies address specific concerns and issues of practitioners and other clients of the study in a particular setting. These studies help people understand the activities and values involved
from a variety of perspectives. However, this responsive approach can lead to low external and a favorable bias toward those who participated in the study.kristen is coolClient-centered
credibility [] edit Evaluation methods and techniques Evaluation is methodologically diverse using both and , including , , , and model building among others. A more detailed list of
methods, techniques and approaches for conducting evaluations would include the following: qualitative methods quantitative methods case studies survey research statistical analysis