92.9 in (2360 mm) (1990s 90) 93 in (2362 mm) (2000s 90) 110 in (2794 mm) (110) 127 in (3226 mm) (130) Length 144 in (3658 mm) (90 pickup) 153 in (3886 mm) (2000s 90) 172 in
(4369 mm) (110 Pickup) 182.3 in (4630 mm) (2000s 110) 183 in (4648 mm) (110 Hardtop) 174.7 in (4437 mm) 157.1 in (3990 mm) (1997-2000s 90) 160.5 in (4077 mm) (1990-94 90)
181.1 in (4600 mm) (1990s 110) (130 Double Cab) 204 in (5182 mm) (130) Width 70.5 in (1791 mm) (1990s) 70 in (1778 mm) (2000s 90) Height 80 in (2032 mm) (2000s 90) 80.2 in
(2037 mm) (1990s 90) 90.0 in (2286 mm) (110) Related Iveco Massif The biggest change to the Land Rover came in late 1990, when it became the Land Rover Defender, instead of the
Land Rover Ninety or One Ten. This was because in 1989 the company had introduced the Discovery model, requiring the original Land Rover to acquire a name. The Discovery also had a
new engine. This was also loosely based on the existing 2.5 litre turbo unit, and was built on the same production line, but had a modern alloy cylinder head, improved turbocharging,
intercooling and . It retained the block, , main , system and other ancillaries as the Diesel Turbo. The breather system included an oil separator filter to remove oil from the air in the
system, thus finally solving the Diesel Turbo's main weakness of re-breathing its own sump oil. The 200Tdi as the new engine was called produced 107 hp (80 kW) and 188 Ib ft (255 N m)
of torque, which was nearly a 25% improvement on the engine it replaced (although as installed in the Defender the engine was de-tuned slightly from its original Discovery specification
(111 horsepower) to suit the prolonged periods of low speed, high revving operation that Land Rovers experienced in commercial use, such as when towing heavy loads). turbodiesel direct
injection crankshaft bearings cambelt This engine finally allowed the Defender to cruise comfortably at high speeds, as well as tow heavy loads speedily on hills while still being
economical. In theory it only replaced the older Diesel Turbo engine in the range, with the other 4-cylinder engines (and the V8 petrol engine) still being available. However, the Tdi's
combination of performance and economy meant that it took the vast majority of sales. Exceptions were the and some commercial operators, who continued to buy vehicles with the

2.5 litre naturally-aspirated diesel engine (in the Army's case, this was because the Tdi was unable to be fitted with a 24). Small numbers of V8-engined Defenders were sold to users in
countries with low fuel costs or who required as much power as possible (such as in Defenders used as or ). British Army volt generator fire engines ambulances Along with the 200Tdi
engine, the 127's name was changed to the Land Rover Defender 130. The wheelbase remained the same; the new figure was simply a tidying up exercise. More importantly, 130s were no
longer built from "cut-and-shut" 110s, but had dedicated chassis built from scratch. 1994 saw another development of the Tdi engine, the 300Tdi. This was the same capacity, and both the
Defender and the Discovery had engines in the same state of tune, 111 bhp (83 kW), 195 ft Ibf (264 N m), and had the same basic layout, but had over 200 changes to improve the
refinement and on-road performance of the engine. However, in the process the economy of the engine was reduced slightly, as was the ability for it to be serviced by the owner.
Throughout the 1990s the vehicle attempted to climb more and more upmarket, while remaining true to its working roots. If ordered without any optional extras, the Defender was a basic
working tool. If the owner so wished, any number of options and accessories could transform it into a vehicle that was perfectly acceptable as an everyday method of transport, while still
retaining excellent off-road abilities. This was epitomised by limited edition vehicles, such as the SV90 in 1992 with roll-over protection cage, alloy wheels and metallic paint and the 50th
Anniversary 90 in 1998 equipped with automatic transmission, air conditioning and Range Rover 4.0 litre V8 engine. A new variant was the Defender 110 Double Cab, featuring a Station
Wagon style seating area, with an open pick up back. Although prototypes had been built in the Series days, it was not until the late 1990s that this popular and adaptable vehicle finally
reached production. [] edit Td5 engine In 1998 the Defender was fitted with an all-new 2.5 litre, in-line turbodiesel engine, badged the TdS. The Tdi could not meet upcoming emissions
regulations so the Td5 replaced the Tdi as the only available power unit. The engine used electronic control systems and produced 11 hp (8 kW) more than the Tdi, with improved
refinement. Traditionalists were critical of the electronic systems deployed throughout the vehicle, but concerns that these would fail when used in extreme conditions proved unfounded.
five-cylinder Euro III [] edit 2007 model From Spring 2007 a series of long-anticipated changes were made to the Defender, most of which were implemented to meet emissions and
safety legislation. The biggest change was to the drivetrain. The Td5 engine was replaced by an engine from Ford's DuraTorq line, built in their factory in , making the TdS the last Land
Rover engine to be built in-house at . The engine chosen was from the ZSD family, being a version of the 2.4 litre unit also used in the highly successful . The engine's lubrication and
sealing system has been adapted for use in wet, dusty conditions and to maintain lubrication at extreme angles in off-road use. Re-tuning the engine means that the power level remains
the same at 122 hp (91 kW), but with a lower power peak speed to provide better performance when towing and better acceleration. Torque output rose from 221 Ib ft (300 N m) to 265 Ib
ft (359 N m) due to the fitting of a variable-geometry . This also helps produce a much wider spread of torque than the Td5, from 1500 rpm to 2000 rpm. The engine is mated to a new
6-speed . 1st gear is lower than the previous gearbox for better low-speed control, whilst the higher 6th gear is intended to reduce noise and fuel consumption at high speeds. Dagenham
Solihull four-cylinder Ford Transit turbocharger gearbox 2007 Defender The other major changes were to the interior. The layout of the original One Ten from 1983 (which was in turn
very similar to that used on the Series III from 1971) was replaced with a full-width fascia and different instrumentation. Instruments came from the , and some of the centre panels come
from the Ford Transit. Some switchgear was carried over from the previous interior. A new heater/ventilation system vastly improved de-misting and heater performance. dashboard
Discovery 3 Other interior changes were to the seating layout. Legislation from the outlaws the inward-facing seats used in the rear of previous Land Rover . The 2007 Defender replaced
the 4 inward-facing seats with two forward-facing seats. This makes the Defender 90 Station Wagon a four seater vehicle (reduced from six or seven), and the Defender 110 Station
Wagon a sevenseater (reduced from nine). Whilst this is a big reduction in capacity, it brings the Defender in line with its competitors which have generally used this layout for many
years. European Union Station Wagons The only external changes were detail changes. The was reshaped with a bulge to allow the new engine to fit in the engine bay whilst meeting
pedestrian safety rules. The new dashboard and ventilation system necessitated the removal of the distinctive air vent flaps underneath the windscreen which had been a feature of all
previous Land Rover utility models. Whilst the flaps have been deleted, the bulkhead pressing remains the same, so the outlines of where the flaps would be are still present. bonnet Now,
more than ever, there is a strong division in sales pitch between the Station Wagon versions and the commercially-intended Pick-Ups and Van-bodied versions. The "XS" Station Wagon
was introduced in 2002 as a top-specification level and the "County" package could be applied to every model in the line-up. XS models come with many "luxury" features, such as heated
windscreen, heated seats, air conditioning, ABS and leather seats. Popular with buyers in the UK and other developed countries, who either used the vehicle for on-road duties such as
towing or people-moving, or simply as an interesting and fashionable alternative to an . estate car At the other extreme, basic models were still popular with farmers, industrial and
commercial users, as well as the emergency services. It finds willing buyers in over 140 countries. Land Rover still provides a staggering range of special conversions such as hydraulic
platforms, fire engines, mobile workshops, ambulances and breakdown recovery trucks. The 130 remains available with the 6-seater HCPU bodystyle as standard. [] edit Export and
foreign-built versions [] edit Defender in the USA 1993 NAS Defender 110 In 1993 Land Rover launched the Defender in the North American (i.e. the United States and Canada) market.
Although the Range Rover had been sold there since 1987, this was the first time utility Land Rovers had been sold since 1974. To comply with the strict regulations, ranging from crash
safety to lighting, as well as the very different requirements of American buyers, the North American Specification (NAS) Defenders were extensively modified. The initial export batch
was 525 Defender 110 County Station Wagons. 500 to the United States and 25 to Canada. They were fitted with the 3.9 litre V8 petrol engine and 5-speed manual transmission. All the
vehicles were white (except one specifically painted black for ). They sported full external roll-cages and larger side-indicator and tail-lights. All were equipped with the factory-fitted air
conditioning system. United States Department of Transportation Ralph Lauren NAS Defender 90 soft-top This initial batch sold quickly, and for the 1994 and 1995 model year Land Rover
offered the Defender 90, fitted with a 3.9 litre V8 engine and a manual transmission which was clearly intended to compete with the . Initially, the Defender 90 was only available as 2
soft-top, but later version was offered with a unique, removable, fibre-glass roof panel or regular Station Wagon hard-top. Jeep Wrangler In the final year of US production the engine
was improved, designated 4.0 and mated to a 4 speed automatic transmission. In 1998 regulations changed to require the fitting of for both front seat passengers in all vehicles, as well as
side door impact requirements. The Defender could not be fitted with these without major modifications, which given the small numbers of NAS vehicles sold in relation to Land Rover's
global sales, were not economically viable. Land Rover retired its utility vehicles at the end of 1997 to focus on its more upmarket Discovery and Range Rover models, as well as the
newly-launched . airbags Freelander [] edit Defender in Australia In 2003 Land Rover withdrew the Defender 90 from the Australian market due to unsupportable sales. It continues to
offer the Defender 110 and 130, which have seen a small sales increase in recent years. [] edit Defender licensees and clones Defenders, derivatives and clones have been built by a
number of manufacturers including in Spain (license expired), in Iran (using parts and molds bought from Santana), in Turkey (in the 1980s under license), and in Brazil (for three years in
the 2000s under license). Assembly also occurs in Pakistan, Malaysia and South Africa. Santana Motors Morattab Otokar Karmann [1] [] edit Military Defenders Defender 110 patrol
vehicles Land Rover Defender vehicles have been used extensively by many of the worlds military forces, including the US in some limited capacity, following experience with the vehicle
during the first , where US forces found the 's vehicles to be more capable and better suited to operation in urban areas and for air-lifting than the . The British Army has used Land Rovers
since the 1950s, as have many countries in the . The British Army replaced its Series III fleet with One Tens in 1985, with a smaller fleet of Nineties following in 1986. Both used the

2.5 litre naturally-aspirated diesel engine. These older vehicles are reaching the end of their service lives, with many being sold onto the civilian market from the late 1990s. Gulf War
British Army Humvee Commonwealth of Nations In 1994 Land Rover created the (XD= eXtra Duty) to replace and complement these vehicles. Powered by 300Tdi engines, the XD has a
much stronger chassis, with fibre webbing around the welded joints in the chassis and around stress points to massively increase load capacity. The XD was available both in Defender 90
and 110 forms, and was developed under the name "Project Wolf". British Army "Wolves" are usually 110-inch (2,794 mm) Soft or Hard Tops, and are used for patrol, communications and
supply duties. 90XDs are less common, but are generally ordered as Soft Top or Hard Top vehicles for light liaison and communications. Short-wheelbase vehicles lack the load capacity
needed by modern armies, and the increased power of heavy-lift has made the larger 110s easily air-transportable- a historic advantage of the smaller, lighter 90. Defender XD
helicopters Land Rover always offered its "Core" military Defenders with the 300Tdi engine rather than the more powerful but more complicated Td5 engine offered in civilian vehicles.
Before the 300Tdi engine was introduced, military Land Rovers were offered with 2.5 litre petrol and diesel engines, as well as the 3.5 litre petrol. Although trials with the Td5 engine
proved it to be reliable in battlefield conditions, it was decided that servicing and repairing its electronic control systems should they fail was too complicated and reliant on having
diagnostic computers available. Land Rover were also unable to guarantee they could make the Td5 resistant to interference. The also tested the Td5 and found it to be reliable, but was
concerned that the extra performance and speed that the engine gave would result in more accidents and vehicle damage on rough tracks when driven by inexperienced drivers, so opted
for the older engine as well. V8 electro-magnetic Australian Army The British police have used Land Rovers (including the Defender) in their service for many years, they are supplied
with the entire range from Land Rover itself. Sussex Police Land Rover In 2004 a fleet of 12 Long wheelbase 110 Td5 Land Rovers were produced for the central German Government,
varying between 110 Vans, 110 Hi-capacity pick-ups and 110 Station wagons. The German Government did not renew the supply contract after 2006 instead turning to Mercedes for their
logistics fleet. Vehicles produced for the German Government order were produced in metallic grey with white roofs. The electrical installation on these vehicles was a special order and
kept "luxury" fittings and fixtures to a bare minimum. Four FFR equipped vehicles were produced to facilitate the VHF radios in service at that time with the German Government and Police
authorities. Following the change-over to the Mercedes contract, the German Central Government sold their Td5 fleet. With 300Tdi production stopping in 2006, Land Rover is currently
gearing up production of a military version of the 4-cylinder DuraTorq engine that is also used as a replacement for the TdS in civilian vehicles. The British Army's Land Rovers have been
the subject of much criticism following recent operations in and . The majority of British Service Land Rovers carry no armour-plating and the composite armoured (originally designed to
withstand small arms fire and hand-launched projectiles as experienced in ) is not immune to the larger roadside and attacks. Some have called for British troops to be equipped with , or
other such vehicles. However, similar criticisms have been levelled at the American vehicle. Other proposals include the South African made or similar larger and more heavily armoured
trucks or armoured vehicles that provide greater protection. Iraq Afghanistan SNATCH Land Rover Northern Ireland bomb rocket Humvees RG-31 There have been many rumours about 2
replacement vehicle type. This is most likely the larger, higher-capacity 4x4 or 6x6 forward-control vehicle similar to the now disused , given that the current Land Rover design is also
reaching its weight limits due to the increasing amounts of communications and weapons gear used by modern patrol forces. Pinzgauer Land Rover 101 Forward Control [] edit Special
editions In recent years Land Rover has occasionally produced Special Editions of the Defender. These have usually been little more than a vehicle being fitted with certain option packs
and equipment, although more bespoke Editions have been produced. Mostly they have been aimed at the more lucrative lifestyle market than the Defender's usual commercial and
off-road markets. 50th Anniversary Defender In 1992 the first Special Edition Land Rover Defender was produced. Called the 90SV (SV stood for 'Special Vehicles, as all the vehicles
were produced by Land Rover's Special Vehicle Operations department), they were painted and were fitted with a black canvas Soft Top with standard door tops. were also fitted, together
with rear (at that time a first for a Land Rover). Despite the vehicle's sporty looks, it used the standard 200Tdi turbodiesel engine. Only 90 were made for the UK market. turquoise Alloy
wheels disc brakes For Land Rover's 50th anniversary in 1998 two special editions were built. The first was the Defender 50th which was essentially 2 NAS (North American Spec)
Defender 90 Station Wagon. It was powered by a 190 hp (140 kW) 4.0 litre V8 petrol engine and was the first Land Rover outside North America to be fitted with an . Air conditioning made
them very comfortable vehicles too. For the UK and Europe they were painted Atlantis Blue, a dark green/blue flip-flop colour and had a Safety Devices roll-over protection cage for the
front seat occupants. In total 1071 SOth Anniversary Defenders were built; 385 for the UK home market, the rest for Japan, Europe and Middle East. automatic transmission The second
1998 Special Edition was the 'Heritage, intended to hark back to the early days of Land Rover in the 1940s. Available in 90 or 110 Station Wagon form, the Heritage was only available in
the two original colours offered by the company - the dark Bronze Green or the light pastel Atlantic Green. A metal mesh-effect front grille, body-coloured alloy wheels and wing mirrors
and silver-painted door and windscreen hinges were all employed to make the Heritage look similar to the original Series I of 1948. Inside special instruments were used, with
black-on-beige displays. The powertrain was the standard TdS diesel engine and 4-wheel-drive transmission. Tomb Raider 90 Special Edition Possibly the best known Special Edition was
the of 2000, built to commemorate Land Rover's role in the first film of that franchise. The Tomb Raider was designed to look like an off-road expedition vehicle. Painted dark metallic grey
with special badging and details, the Tomb Raiders came equipped with a roof rack, additional spot lights, winch, bull-bar and snorkel. They were available either as a 90 Station Wagon or
a 110 Double Cab, with standard Td5 engines. Tomb Raider Following the first in 2003, G4-Edition Defenders became available. As well as the distinctive Tangiers Orange colour of the
competition vehicles, yellow and black versions were also produced. Defender 90 and 110 Station Wagon versions were available, with front A-Bar, roll-cage, side-steps and front
spotlights as standard, as well as G4 badging. Land Rover G4 Challenge Since then, Land Rover have produced less extravagant Special Editions. The Defender Black was a 90 or 110
County Station Wagon with metallic black paint, roll cage and dark-tinted rear windows. The Defender Silver was 2 110 County Station Wagon with silver metallic paint, front A-bar and
spotlights, metal wing-protector plates and winch. The 1999 X-Tech was aimed at the commercial market, being a metallic silver 90 Hard Top fitted with County-style seats, alloy wheels
and Alpine window lights. The second model year edition in 2003 was better equipped with wing protector plates and air conditioning. 2008 saw Land Rover's 60th anniversary, for which a
new series of special edition Defenders were produced. Branded the 'SVX', three models were built. All were painted black with 'satin' effect body graphics on the vehicles sides and bonnet
carrying the '60th' logo used throughout 2008 at various special events and on anniversary merchandise. Bespoke 5-spoke alloy wheels were used and a new silver-coloured front grille
design was used. This also incorporated a new design of with the sidelight lamp being integral with the main headlamp unit, allowing the space previously used for the separate sidelight to
be used to fit a pair of high-intensity . Inside the SVX models gained bucket seats in the front row, alloy gearlever knobs and a GPS navigation system. The drivetrain was the standard
2.4 litre diesel and 6-speed manual permanent 4-wheel-drive transmission. The SVX edition was available as a 110 Station Wagon (only available outside the UK), a 90 Station Wagon and
a brand new design of 90 - the first time a Soft Top model had been available through showrooms in the UK since 1992. SVX Soft Tops had only the two front seats- the rear load bay
being used to accommodate the spare wheel and a lockable storage box. A new design of hood was used, sloping down towards the rear over a jointed folding frame, unlike the standard
square-framed hood used on other Soft Top Land Rovers. headlamp driving lamps Recaro Garmin Soft Top [] edit Replacement Replacing the Defender with a new model has been in the
planning stages for many years. The design is over 20 years old in its current form and, in some ways, directly evolved and updated from the Land Rovers of the 1940s. New methods of
building the Defender have made the model profitable again (since the 1990s, the hand-built vehicle had been made at a loss), so its replacement has been less of a priority. Total
replacement will be needed by 2010, when new regulations regarding crash safety for pedestrians will render the current design obsolete. At present, the Defender does not reach the
safety requirement for the USA, and only small batches of specially modified (and very expensive) vehicles have been sold there in the past. A replacement vehicle will almost certainly be
designed to be legal in America.