[] edit History The service launched initially in December 2005, and fully launched in March 2006. BART and Caltrain riders who previously faced uncoordinated substitute bus transit
service after midnight can now take advantage of All Nighter buses that operate between midnight and 5 a.m. The service is operated by , , , , and . The agencies have created a network
of timed transfers, and additional weekend service every half hour was added from downtown to several BART stations along the Richmond and Fremont lines. AC Transit Route 800 travels
down Market Street and around downtown , within walking distance of more than 75 late-night venues, before heading to the East Bay. This is the first route AC Transit has run buses in
San Francisco beyond the . AC Transit Muni SamTrans VTA WHEELS San Francisco San Francisco Transbay Terminal The service is funded by Regional Measure 2, which voters approved in
2004. The measure increased tolls by $1 on state-owned bridges in the . Bay Area The Alll Nighter service also included a late-night line run by , Route 820, which operated between
downtown and central County. This route was discontinued in December 2008 due to budgetary problems and low ridership. County Connection Oakland Contra Costa [1] [2] Overnight
transit service within San Francisco, to Santa Rosa, to the San Francisco International Airport, to Oakland, within the East Bay, and within the South Bay predated the Alll Nighter initiative.
Overnight service outside San Francisco has been volatile, rising and falling with the financial fortunes of the various transit agencies. AC Transit's long-standing overnight service was
completely withdrawn in 1996 and then restored and expanded in later years. SamTrans introduced overnight service to SFO in 2001 and maintained it with a subsidy from the airport
starting in 2003. introduced overnight service on Route 22 and the network, but later withdrew overnight light rail service due to financial difficulties. , which had long offered an
essentially 24-hour service on Route 80 to Santa Rosa, reduced the span of service in 2003. 24-hour service was one of the issues considered in the Metropolitan Transportation
Commission's LifeLine study, about the transportation needs of economically-disadvantaged individuals. [3] [4] VTA [5] light rail Golden Gate Transit [6] The service to and (including , , ,
,, and ) is mainly provided by ; this includes Transbay service to and from over the . serves , , and . Contra Costa Alameda Counties Alameda Berkeley Fremont Hayward Oakland
Richmond San Leandro AC Transit San Francisco San Francisco Oakland Bay Bridge WHEELS Hayward Dublin Pleasanton Livermore For the Peninsula and South Bay, service is provided by
the in, in, and in. SamTrans provides service along the rail corridor between San Francisco and . VTA provides service along the Caltrain rail corridor between Palo Alto, connecting with
SamTrans, and . San Francisco Municipal Railway San Francisco SamTrans San Mateo County VTA Santa Clara County Caltrain Palo Alto San Jose Service to/from San Francisco across the
San Francisco Oakland Bay Bridge runs hourly Monday through Friday early in the morning (Sunday through Thursday nights) approximately from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m. Service on Saturday
and Sunday early mornings (Friday and Saturday nights) runs every half hour between midnight and 6 a.m., with hourly service on Sundays until 8 a.m. 's trip planner does not work for
trips beginning and ending around 4 a.m. due to programming limitations, so it is advisable to plan trips using All Nighter routes by hand. 511.org [] edit Transfer points So-called are
points where schedules are coordinated to facilitate transfer between All Nighter bus lines. The primary transfer point is in downtown , where AC Transit Route 800 service from San
Francisco connects with other AC Transit routes serving the East Bay. Another transfer point is located at , where the AC Transit service between Oakland and Fremont connects to AC
Transit service to and service along the BART line to and along to . The main pulse point in San Francisco, operating on the hour on weekdays and the hour and half-hour on Friday and
Saturday nights, is at Van Ness Avenue and Market Street, where the Muni L and 90 owl lines connect with AC Transit Route 800 and Route 397. (Muni's N owl line operates at :15 and :45
after the hour.) A secondary pulse at the allows for transfer between Muni, SamTrans and AC Transit. The Muni Market Street late night map can be viewed on the .pulse transfer points
Oakland Bay Fair BART Station Castro Valley WHEELS Dublin/Pleasanton I-580 Livermore SamTrans Transbay Terminal 511 Website [] edit Downtown Oakland Pulse Transfer Point 800