Online Casino Poker has got its own alien language that makes some of us all say What was that he was talking about? If they developed any more words they should be creating their
own dictionary. For us na ve but interested in playing poker here are some of the words that they use. Blinds O can either be small or big. These are not your 3 little blind mice kind of
thingy. These are the required bets that are needed to be made before cards are dealt. Instead of paying penalties when you lose, they made it to a reward, to be more positive. The small
blind is paid by the person on the left of the dealer and the big blind is paid by the person next to him. Board cards 0 cards that are in the middle of the table that are shared by other
players. Draw 0 you hope that your hand will improve with the set of cards that will come out of the board cards. If you have two cards that are of the same suit (i.e. clover) and the flop
cards are 3 clover, 10 clover and King of hearts. You would wish that the draw on the turn or river will be any card that is also a clover to get a flush. Flop Ci the first three cards that
come out on the board table. (Texas Hold Em type of poker) Preflop 0 when you only have two cards and no cards are on the board yet. Turn Ci the fourth card that comes after the
flop(Texas Hold Em type of poker) River Ci the fifth and final card that comes after the turn(Texas Hold Em type of poker) Pot odds Ol the odds you have when you are drawing. Limit
Poker Oi poker that has fixed bets that ranges usually for 2 to 4 dollars. The raises will also be only 2 dollars in the preflop and flop rounds. The bets and raises will then be 4 dollars on
the final two rounds. Long hand D this is not the term for cheaters. This is the term for poker games that have 7 or more people. Short hand 0 not a poker game for midgets. This is a
poker game with 6 or less poker players. Outs 0 the number of cards that can help improve your cards. This is a mathematical thing. If you have cards that are 10 & 9 and the flop is
queen, jacks and 2. To be able to have a straight you would need either an 8 or a king and there are for of each kind of these cards in the deck. Therefore your outs are 8. Position Cl the
place where you sit at the poker table. Dealers always have the best position because he always bets last and therefore he will have a better understanding of what the other players

have. The person who goes frit or the small blind has the worst position. Top 4 Casinos: zadax Our online poker room recommendations are second-to-none because of our strict

criteria. If we recommend the online poker room, know it(s excellent. Feel safe and secure playing at any one of the online poker rooms we recommend. Email: Copyright  2007 The
Guide to the Best Poker Sites. All rights reserved