5 External links [] edit Unintentional weight loss Poor management of type 1 diabetes mellitus, also known as (IDDM), leads to an excessive amount of glucose and an insufficient amount
of insulin in the bloodstream. This triggers the release of from adipose (fat) tissue and (breakdown) of in muscle tissue. This results in a loss of both fat and lean mass, leading to a
significant reduction in total body weight. Note that untreated type 1 diabetes mellitus will usually not produce weight loss, as these patients get acutely ill before they would have had
time to lose weight. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus triglycerides catabolism amino acids Myriad additional scientific considerations are applicable to weight loss, including but not
limited to: physiological and exercise sciences, science, , and other sciences. nutrition behavioral sciences One area involves the science of including biochemical and energy production
and utilization systems, that is frequently evidence of diabetes, and , acetone particles occurring in body fluids and tissues involved in , also known as , somewhat common in severe
diabetes. bioenergetics physiological ketone bodies acidosis ketosis In addition to weight loss due to a reduction in fat and lean mass, illnesses such as diabetes, certain medications, lack
of fluid intake and other factors can trigger fluid loss. And fluid loss in addition to a reduction in fat and lean mass exacerbates the risk for . cachexia Infections such as may alter
metabolism, leading to weight loss. HIV [1] Hormonal disruptions, such as an overactive thyroid (), may also exhibit as weight loss. hyperthyroidism [2] Recent research has shown to
result in significant weight loss. fidgeting [3] [] edit Intentional weight loss Weight loss refers to the loss of total body mass in an effort to improve fitness, health, and/or appearance
Therapeutic weight loss, in individuals who are or , can decrease the likelihood of developing diseases such as , , high blood pressure, , , and certain types of . overweight obese diabetes
[4] heart disease stroke osteoarthritis [5] cancer Weight loss occurs when an individual is in a state of negative energy balance. When the human body is spending more in and than it is
gaining from food or other nutritional supplements, it will use stored reserves of fat or muscle. energy work heat It is not uncommon for some people who are currently at their ideal
body weight to seek additional weight loss in order to improve athletic performance, and/or meet required weight classification for participation in a sport. However, others may be driven
by achieving a more attractive body image . Consequently, being is associated with health risks such as difficulty fighting off infection, osteoporosis, decreased muscle strength, trouble
regulating body temperature and even increased risk of death. [6] [7] underweight [8] [] edit Therapeutic weight loss techniques See also: and Obesity#Management Bariatrics The
least intrusive weight loss methods, and those most often recommended by physicians, are adjustments to eating patterns and increased physical . Physicians will usually recommend that
their overweight patients combine a reduction of processed and content of the diet with an increase in physical activity. exercise [9] caloric [10] Other methods of losing weight include
use of and that decrease , block absorption, or reduce stomach volume. Medicines with herbs such as are popular. Finally, may be used in more severe cases. Bariatric surgery artificially
reduces the size of the stomach, limiting the intake of . drugs supplements appetite fat Fucus vesiculosus [11] surgery food energy [] edit Crash dieting A is where a person willfully
restricts themselves of all nourishment (except water) for more than 12 hours. The desired result is to have the body burn fat for energy with the goal of losing a significant amount of
weight in a short time. Crash dieting is not the same as , in which the individual periodically abstains from food (e.g., every other day). crash diet intermittent fasting [] edit Weight loss
industry There is a substantial market for products which promise to make weight loss easier, quicker, cheaper, more reliable, or less painful. These include books, CDs, cremes, lotions,
pills, rings and earrings, body wraps, body belts and other materials, not to mention fitness centers, personal coaches, weight loss groups, and food products and supplements. US
residents in 1992 spent an estimated $30 billion a year on all types of diet programs and products, including diet foods and drinks. [12] Between $33 billion and $55 billion is spent
annually on weight loss products and services, including medical procedures and pharmaceuticals, with weight loss centers garnering between 6 percent and 12 percent of total annual
expenditure. About 70 percent of Americans dieting attempts are of a self-help nature. Although often short-lived, these diet fads are a positive trend for this sector as Americans
ultimately turn to professionals to help them meet their weight loss goals. [13]