InuYasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Stylus , released in on , , for the , is an game developed by Namco/Bandai Games America, Inc. Once again,
and his friends are off on another adventure through the .InuYasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel North America January 23 2007 Nintendo DS RPG InuYasha Warring States Period Contents
[] edit Story Janis is a transfer student from the , living in for the second time (explaining how she can speak right away). She was forced to move back after her father had yet another
job transfer. It is in present day Japan where she meets . The two become fast friends. One day, Kagome is absent from school and Janis goes to check on her. Soon after she reaches the
She is attacked by a demon and is almost killed. Janis is rescued, however, by a mask wearing priest named Sen (or Monk Sen). He tells her that her destiny lies on the other side of the
Bone Eater's Well. In the , she is reunited with Kagome and the others. Something strange happens though. She touches a sacred jewel shard and it melts into her body. According to Monk
Sen, Janis possesses a divine power called Kamuitama, and says that she is the daughter of Kamui. The shard inside Janis is even undetectable by Kagome. Janis joins the others in a
quest to return the Kamuitama to the one who previously bore the power, a god known as Datara. Only then will she be able to remove the shard and rid herself of the power that makes
her a target for demons. United States Japan Japanese Kagome Higurashi Higurashi Shrine Sengoku Era [] edit Characters Janis A human girl from the modern era who becomes friends
with Kagome in the game. Janis is an American and is the reincarnation of the daughter of the god, Datara. She follows Kagome one day after school and is attacked by a demon who
emerges from the Bone Eater's Well. Rescued by the mysterious Monk Sen, Janis follows his advice to follow Kagome to the feudal era through the well. After passing through, she meets
Kagome and her friends and discovers that the Sacred Jewel shard has awakened her Kamui powers. She agrees to accompany them on their journey until she is able to remove the Jewel
Shard from her body. Lord Gorai The infamous Lord of the Northern Lands. He is a powerful demon who sought the Demon Mask 500 years before the main storyline, and used the mask
to control the god Datara. After an encounter with InuYasha's group, Gorai grants them safe passage through the mountains and allows them to reawaken the dormant Datara. With the
god as his slave, he plans to steal Datara's Kamui powers. Gorai and his forces attacked and destroyed many human villages, but his units are wiped out by Naruku's demon puppets. After
a brief battle with InuYasha and his friends, Gorai was defeated and injured. Naraku stepped in to distract InuYasha with his Demon Puppets, thus allowing Gorai to escape. The Demon
Lord played into Naraku's plans to steal Datara's Kamui by allowing Gorai to steal the Kamui first, and then taking it from him. Both Gorai's and Naraku's plans are eventually thwarted by
InuYasha's group, and Datara was freed from his control. Sara Known for using a spell to control humans, Sara is a powerful female demon. Despite leading a small army of her demon
minions, she can be somewhat overconfident in her own abilities. After her battle with InuYasha's team (accompanied by Janis), Sara retreated. Her serious injuries led her to the New
Moon Cave, which opens only on the night of the New Moon. Despite it being the Night of the New Moon, the human InuYasha and his group entered the demon-infested cave and
encountered Sesshomaru. Knowing of their presence, Sara captured Kagome, Sango, Miroku, Shippo, and Kirara. She succeeded in stealing the Sea God's Kamui, but was confronted by
Sesshomaru. He and Janis temporarily joined forces to destroy Sara, and return the Sea God's Kamui. [] edit Gameplay has a turn based battle system, where each character in the
player's party takes a turn attacking, guarding, using items, or escaping. It also has a character development system, where the characters gain experience to level up and become more
powerful. When not battling, the player is free to roam around the map or continue with the story and move on to his or her next objective.Secret of the Divine Jewel Secret of the Divine
Jewel Game Reviews Review scores