(.,) was an, , and . She died after World War I.Madam C.J. Walker December 23 1867 May 25 1919 American businesswoman hair care entrepreneur tycoon philanthropist Her fortune
was made by developing and marketing a hugely successful line of beauty and hair products for black women, under the company she founded Madam C.J. Walker Manufacturing
Company. The cites Walker as the first female, black or white, who became a by her own achievements. Guinness Book of Records millionaire In , scholar listed Madam C. J. Walker on
his list of . 2002 Molefi Kete Asante 100 Greatest African Americans [1] Contents 5 External links Biography She was born Sarah Breedlove in , the first member of her family to be
born free. Her parents had been slaves. At age 14, she married a man named Moses McWilliams and was widowed at age 20. She then moved to to join her brothers. Sarah worked as a
laundress for as little as a dollar and a half a day, but she was able to save enough to educate her daughter. While living in St. Louis, she joined , which helped develop her speaking,
interpersonal and organizational skills. She was married in 1894 to John Davis and divorced about nine years later. Delta, Louisiana St. Louis, Missouri St. Paul's African Methodist
Episcopal Church When she began to lose her hair, she had the idea for a line of hair care products. Like that of most other Americans in the early 1900s, Walker's home lacked indoor
plumbing, electricity and central heating. Like many women of that era, she washed her hair only once a month. As a result, she suffered from severe and scalp disease that nearly caused
her to go bald. dandruff In 1905, Davis moved to , where she worked as a sales agent for Annie Malone, another black woman entrepreneur who manufactured hair care products. Sarah
also consulted with a Denver pharmacist, who analyzed Malone's formula and helped Walker formulate her own products. In addition, she often told reporters that the ingredients for her
"Wonderful Hair Grower" had come to her in a dream. Denver, Colorado In 1906 she married Charles Joseph Walker, a St. Louis newspaperman, and changed her name to "Madam C.J.
walker". She founded the Madam C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company to sell hair care products and . Madam Walker divorced Walker in 1910 and moved her growing manufacturing
operations from St. Louis to a new industrial complex in . By 1917 she had the largest business in the owned by a black person. cosmetics Indianapolis United States I am a woman who
came from the cotton fields of the South. From there I was promoted to the washtub. From there I was promoted to the cook kitchen. And from there I promoted myself into the business
of manufacturing hair goods and preparations... have built my own factory on my own ground. [2] There is no royal, flower-strewn path to success. And if there is, I have not found it for
if I have accomplished anything in life, it is because I have been willing to work hard. [2] Walker saw her personal wealth not as an end in itself, but as a means to promote economic
opportunities for others, especially black people. She took great pride in the profitable employment and alternative to domestic labor that her company afforded many thousands of black
women who worked as commissioned agents. Her agents could earn from $5 to $15 per day in an era when unskilled white laborers were making about $11 per week. , who started work
as one of her employees, went on to lead the next generation of African-American beauty entrepreneurs. [3] Marjorie Joyner Walker was known for her philanthropy, leaving two-thirds of
her estate to educational institutions and charities, including the , the and . In 1919, her $5,000 pledge to the NAACP's anti-lynching campaign was the largest gift the organization had ever
received. NAACP Tuskegee Institute Bethune-Cookman College Walker had a mansion called "" built in the wealthy New York suburb of , near the estates of and . She spent hundreds of
thousands of dollars on furnishings. The was designed by architect , the first registered black in the state of New York, in 1915. Walker also owned townhouses in and New York. Villa
Lewaro Irvington on Hudson, New York John D. Rockefeller Jay Gould [4] Italianate villa Vertner Tandy architect Indianapolis Madam Walker died on May 25, 1919, at age 51, at her estate
She passed away because of kidney failure and other complications resulting from . She was buried at in . villa Lewaro hypertension Woodlawn Cemetery the Bronx Her daughter carried
on the tradition of hospitality, opening her mother's home and her own to writers and artists of the emergent . She promoted important members of that movement. She converted a
section of her townhouse at 108-110 West 136th Street into the Dark Tower, a salon and tearoom where Harlem and artists, writers and musicians gathered. Poet called her "The joy
goddess of Harlem's 1920s" in his autobiography , because of the lavish parties she hosted in Harlem and . ALelia Walker Harlem Renaissance [5] Harlem Greenwich Village Langston
Hughes The Big Sea Irvington See also Madame Walker Theatre Center References Asante, Molefi Kete (2002). 100 Greatest African Americans: A Biographical Encyclopedia. Amherst,
New York. Prometheus Books. .  ISBN 1-57392-963-8