VI News Archive - 2006 Below are recent news releases and you will find more information about vinyl/PVC products on our page. The page offers a directory of websites for both
associations representing specific types of vinyl products 0 including pipe, siding, medical and toys and the global vinyl industry. For VI contact information, go to our page. Another
online resource is the , found at . This website contains links to news articles about vinyl/PVC products and other information about VI and the vinyl/PVC industry. Vinyl News Service
www.vinyInewsservice.net Documents ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 23, 2009 Oi The Vinyl Institute announced awards to the top-performing companies in the vinyl/PVC industry in improving
worker safety and protecting the environment. VI Recognizes Top Safety and Environmental Performers The total direct and indirect benefits of consumer access to PVC in the United
States and Canada in 2007 amounted to more than $20 billion. This is the conclusion of "The Economic Benefits of Polyvinyl Chloride in the United States and Canada," a report recently
released by Whitfield & Associates for the Chlorine Chemistry Division of the American Chemistry Council and The Vinyl Institute. PVC Products Bring $20 Billion Value to Consumers Read
the full story here and access the complete report on the value of PVC products. NAPIER FIELD, Ala., Nov. 26, 2008 CI Dale County was finally accepted for a grant to replace leaky
cast-iron pipes with PVC pipes, solving water problems affecting more than 300 residents. Napier Field, Ala. Approved for PVC Pipe Renovation Project BALTIMORE, Md., Oct. 28, 2008
(VNS) Ol Exhibitors at the National Recreation & Parks Association Trade Show showed united support for the benefits of their playground products made of or coated with PVC. Playground
Manufacturers Give PVC Products a Big Push ARLINGTON, Va., June 30, 2008 OI An activist report claiming vinyl shower curtains are dangerous, was criticized by news organizations for
its sloppy research and scare-mongering. Shower Curtain Scare Story Called Exaggerated, Wild ARLINGTON, Va., Feb. 29, 2008 OI The Vinyl Institute (VI), headquartered in Arlington,
Va., announced the hiring of Gregory J. Bocchi as President, effective May 1, 2008. The Vinyl Institute Names Gregory J. Bocchi President INDIANA, Pa., Dec. 16, 2008 0 Gorell Windows
& Doors LLC has received Green Seal certification for its five models of double-hung replacement vinyl windows. Gorell Vinyl Windows Gain Green Seal Certification ARLINGTON, Mass.,
Dec. 5, 2008 0 Using vinyl clapboard in a home make-over, a couple is gets state support and utility funding to test the effectiveness of innovative materials in saving energy. Home
Renovation With Vinyl Siding Becomes State Energy Project LANCASTER, Pa., Nov. 14, 2008 (VNS) 0 Armstrong World Industries announced October 30th it will begin manufacturing
fiberglass-backed vinyl residential flooring in the United States. Armstrong World Industries Opening Vinyl Flooring Plant in Pennsylvania ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 23, 2008 OI To paraphrase
Mark Twain, rumors of the death of vinyl records have been greatly exaggerated. In fact, their popularity has received a louder buzz lately. Vinyl Records 1 60 Years Strong and Still in
the Groove ARLINGTON, Va., June 12, 2008 0 Decades of research and use prove that shower curtains made of vinyl are safe, effective and deserve their popularity, the Vinyl Institute
said this morning. Shower Curtains Declared Harmless Links Large diameter PVC pipe can greatly reduce the number of watermain breaks, and as a result keep water rates down. See
how many watermain breaks occur in the United States and Canada, and the financial impact. Watermain Break Clock  2009 The Vinyl Institute 1300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA,
22209 Tel: 703 741 5670 Fax: 703 741 5672