Employment _ Orthopedic Associates of Dutchess CountyLisprovides rehabilitative and preventative services that maximize functionality and promote well being. As professioanls in
orthopedic rehabilitation, they work collaboratively with patients and physicians to develop individualized treatment programs that help each patient achieve their specific goals. Comprised
exclusively of licensed physical therapists, registered/licensed occupational therapists, certified hand therapists, licensed physical therapist assistants, certified occupational therapist
assistants and certified athletic trainers, our team possesses a diverse and extensive skill set that enables optimal treatment for all orthopedic conditions. All of our clinicians are actively
involved in continuing professional education and teaching. We also sponsor professional education programs that our colleagues who practice elsewhere in the community attend. Our
commitment to excellence is founded in this culture of learning and education and it is reflected in the superior care we provide. Our commitment to customer satisfaction is our priority.
The new is designed for our high school and college athletes who need to determine the severity of a injury. For a brochure on the With three convenient Dutchess County locations,
prompt scheduling, flexible hours, and comprehensive insurance participation, OADC Therapy features " Convenient Locations & Hours " Prompt Appointment Availability " Most Insurance
Plans Accepted Core Services " Physical TherapyTHERAPY SERVICES Physical and Hand therapy team Setting High Standards, Striving for Excellence Sports Medicine Fast Track Program
Sports Medicine Fast Track Program click here. we are the Hudson ValleyCls # 1 choice for orthopedic rehabilitative care. "Hand Therapy " Low Back Rehabilitation " Sports Performance
& athletic Training " Custom splint and orthotic fabrication " Procurement of TENS/ muscle stimulator units and portable spinal traction devices . " Excellent Clinical Care & Customer
Service